This precious vessel was now placed on my knee , and I was cordially invited to eat the circlet of delicate pastry upon it . Vain favour ! coming , like most other favours long deferred and often wished for , too late !
`` Do n't you think Gateshead Hall a very beautiful house ? '' asked he . `` Are you not very thankful to have such a fine place to live at ? ''
" Is there anything else you wish for , Jane ?
But you are rather put upon , that 's certain .
`` Ay , ay ! '' was the answer : the door was slapped to , a voice exclaimed `` All right , '' and on we drove .
I devoured my bread and drank my coffee with relish ; but I should have been glad of as much more -- I was still hungry .
I generally contrived to reserve a moiety of this bounteous repast for myself ; but the remainder I was invariably obliged to part with .
I wish the woollen stockings were better looked to ! -- when I was here last , I went into the kitchen-garden and examined the clothes drying on the line ; there was a quantity of black hose in a very bad state of repair : from the size of the holes in them I was sure they had not been well mended from time to time . "
They conversed of things I had never heard of ; of nations and times past ; of countries far away ; of secrets of nature discovered or guessed at : they spoke of books : how many they had read !
Mr. Brocklehurst and his family never came near Lowood now : household matters were not scrutinised into ; the cross housekeeper was gone , driven away by the fear of infection ; her successor , who had been matron at the Lowton Dispensary , unused to the ways of her new abode , provided with comparative liberality .
My favourite seat was a smooth and broad stone , rising white and dry from the very middle of the beck , and only to be got at by wading through the water ; a feat I accomplished barefoot .
Mary Ann remarked that she supposed some one must be very ill , as Mr. Bates had been sent for at that time of the evening .
I saw the outline of a form under the clothes , but the face was hid by the hangings : the nurse I had spoken to in the garden sat in an easy-chair asleep ; an unsnuffed candle burnt dimly on the table .
I was not reprimanded for leaving my bed ; people had something else to think about ; no explanation was afforded then to my many questions ; but a day or two afterwards I learned that Miss Temple , on returning to her own room at dawn , had found me laid in the little crib ; my face against Helen Burns 's shoulder , my arms round her neck .
The next day she laid the affair before Mr. Brocklehurst , who said that Mrs. Reed must be written to , as she was my natural guardian .
I had brushed my black stuff travelling-dress , prepared my bonnet , gloves , and muff ; sought in all my drawers to see that no article was left behind ; and now having nothing more to do , I sat down and tried to rest .
" Well , and how do they all get on ?
Well , our ship stopped in the morning , before it was quite daylight , at a great city -- a huge city , with very dark houses and all smoky ; not at all like the pretty clean town I came from ; and Mr. Rochester carried me in his arms over a plank to the land , and Sophie came after , and we all got into a coach , which took us to a beautiful large house , larger than this and finer , called an hotel .
`` Adele , '' I inquired , `` with whom did you live when you were in that pretty clean town you spoke of ? ''
`` None that I ever heard of , '' returned Mrs. Fairfax , smiling .
Anybody may blame me who likes , when I add further , that , now and then , when I took a walk by myself in the grounds ; when I went down to the gates and looked through them along the road ; or when , while Adele played with her nurse , and Mrs. Fairfax made jellies in the storeroom , I climbed the three staircases , raised the trap-door of the attic , and having reached the leads , looked out afar over sequestered field and hill , and along dim sky-line -- that then I longed for a power of vision which might overpass that limit ; which might reach the busy world , towns , regions full of life I had heard of but never seen -- that then I desired more of practical experience than I possessed ; more of intercourse with my kind , of acquaintance with variety of character , than was here within my reach .
Women are supposed to be very calm generally : but women feel just as men feel ; they need exercise for their faculties , and a field for their efforts , as much as their brothers do ; they suffer from too rigid a restraint , too absolute a stagnation , precisely as men would suffer ; and it is narrow-minded in their more privileged fellow-creatures to say that they ought to confine themselves to making puddings and knitting stockings , to playing on the piano and embroidering bags .
Having seen Adele comfortably seated in her little chair by Mrs. Fairfax 's parlour fireside , and given her her best wax doll ( which I usually kept enveloped in silver paper in a drawer ) to play with , and a story-book for change of amusement ; and having replied to her `` Revenez bientot , ma bonne amie , ma chere Mdlle . Jeannette , '' with a kiss I set out .
The din was on the causeway : a horse was coming ; the windings of the lane yet hid it , but it approached . I was just leaving the stile ; yet , as the path was narrow , I sat still to let it go by .
`` I should think you ought to be at home yourself , '' said he , `` if you have a home in this neighbourhood : where do you come from ? ''
I caressed him , and he wagged his great tail ; but he looked an eerie creature to be alone with , and I could not tell whence he had come .
`` And you came from -- ? '' `` From Lowood school , in -- -shire . ''
One gleam of light lifted into relief a half-submerged mast , on which sat a cormorant , dark and large , with wings flecked with foam ; its beak held a gold bracelet set with gems , that I had touched with as brilliant tints as my palette could yield , and as glittering distinctness as my pencil could impart .
Adele , indeed , no sooner saw Mrs. Fairfax , than she summoned her to her sofa , and there quickly filled her lap with the porcelain , the ivory , the waxen contents of her `` boite ; '' pouring out , meantime , explanations and raptures in such broken English as she was mistress of .
`` I am sure , sir , I should never mistake informality for insolence : one I rather like , the other nothing free-born would submit to , even for a salary . ''
My Spring is gone , however , but it has left me that French floweret on my hands , which , in some moods , I would fain be rid of .
She was returning : of course my heart thumped with impatience against the iron rails I leant upon .
It little mattered whether my curiosity irritated him ; I knew the pleasure of vexing and soothing him by turns ; it was one I chiefly delighted in , and a sure instinct always prevented me from going too far ; beyond the verge of provocation I never ventured ; on the extreme brink I liked well to try my skill .
It does good to no woman to be flattered by her superior , who can not possibly intend to marry her ; and it is madness in all women to let a secret love kindle within them , which , if unreturned and unknown , must devour the life that feeds it ; and , if discovered and responded to , must lead , _ ignis-fatus _ -like , into miry wilds whence there is no extrication .
`` Yes , '' said Leah ; " I wish I had as good ; not that mine are to complain of , -- there 's no stinginess at Thornfield ; but they 're not one fifth of the sum Mrs. Poole receives .
Adele now petitioned to go down ; but I took her on my knee , and gave her to understand that she must not on any account think of venturing in sight of the ladies , either now or at any other time , unless expressly sent for : that Mr. Rochester would be very angry , & c .
" No , indeed , I do n't ; Mr. Rochester has something else to think about .
The crimson curtain hung before the arch : slight as was the separation this drapery formed from the party in the adjoining saloon , they spoke in so low a key that nothing of their conversation could be distinguished beyond a soothing murmur .
Lady Lynn had remarked , `` It is Mr. Rochester 's ward , I suppose -- the little French girl he was speaking of . ''
`` No , never : we might do what we pleased ; ransack her desk and her workbox , and turn her drawers inside out ; and she was so good-natured , she would give us anything we asked for . ''
It had formerly been my endeavour to study all sides of his character : to take the bad with the good ; and from the just weighing of both , to form an equitable judgment . Now I saw no bad .
They affirmed that she had even divined their thoughts , and had whispered in the ear of each the name of the person she liked best in the world , and informed them of what they most wished for .
" I do ; especially when I 've customers like you to deal with .
`` A mean nutriment for the spirit to exist on : and sitting in that window- seat ( you see I know your habits ) -- '' `` You have learned them from the servants . ''
Now , then , I must see you all back into your rooms ; for , till the house is settled , she can not be looked after .
His guest had been outraged , his own life on a former occasion had been hideously plotted against ; and both attempts he smothered in secrecy and sank in oblivion !
Old times crowded fast back on me as I watched her bustling about -- setting out the tea-tray with her best china , cutting bread and butter , toasting a tea-cake , and , between whiles , giving little Robert or Jane an occasional tap or push , just as she used to give me in former days .
The fact was , I had other things to think about ; within the last few months feelings had been stirred in me so much more potent than any they could raise -- pains and pleasures so much more acute and exquisite had been excited than any it was in their power to inflict or bestow -- that their airs gave me no concern either for good or bad .
He did not leave the stile , and I hardly liked to ask to go by .
The vehemence of emotion , stirred by grief and love within me , was claiming mastery , and struggling for full sway , and asserting a right to predominate , to overcome , to live , rise , and reign at last : yes , -- and to speak .
`` You play a farce , which I merely laugh at . ''
I do n't like to hear them spoken of .
Adele , when lifted in , commenced kissing me , by way of expressing her gratitude for my intercession : she was instantly stowed away into a corner on the other side of him .
I hated the business , I begged leave to defer it : no -- it should be gone through with now .
`` I have formed no supposition on the subject , sir ; but I want to go on as usual for another month . ''
" Oh , all he longed , all he prayed for , was that I might live with him !
In other people 's presence I was , as formerly , deferential and quiet ; any other line of conduct being uncalled for : it was only in the evening conferences I thus thwarted and afflicted him .
The wind fell , for a second , round Thornfield ; but far away over wood and water , poured a wild , melancholy wail : it was sad to listen to , and I ran off again .
There were no groomsmen , no bridesmaids , no relatives to wait for or marshal : none but Mr. Rochester and I. Mrs. Fairfax stood in the hall as we passed . I would fain have spoken to her , but my hand was held by a grasp of iron : I was hurried along by a stride I could hardly follow ; and to look at Mr. Rochester 's face was to feel that not a second of delay would be tolerated for any purpose .
The service began . The explanation of the intent of matrimony was gone through ; and then the clergyman came a step further forward , and , bending slightly towards Mr. Rochester , went on .
`` The marriage can not go on : I declare the existence of an impediment . ''
Have we anything else to stay for ? " he inquired of Mr. Mason .
I have a place to repair to , which will be a secure sanctuary from hateful reminiscences , from unwelcome intrusion -- even from falsehood and slander . "
Preconceived opinions , foregone determinations , are all I have at this hour to stand by : there I plant my foot . " I did .
I was transported in thought to the scenes of childhood : I dreamt I lay in the red-room at Gateshead ; that the night was dark , and my mind impressed with strange fears .
The last was an awful blank : something like the world when the deluge was gone by .
Oh , intolerable questions , when I could do nothing and go nowhere ! -- when a long way must yet be measured by my weary , trembling limbs before I could reach human habitation -- when cold charity must be entreated before I could get a lodging : reluctant sympathy importuned , almost certain repulse incurred , before my tale could be listened to , or one of my wants relieved !
The burden must be carried ; the want provided for ; the suffering endured ; the responsibility fulfilled .
A neighbour or two came in ; my chair was evidently wanted . I took leave .
Some say there is enjoyment in looking back to painful experience past ; but at this day I can scarcely bear to review the times to which I allude : the moral degradation , blent with the physical suffering , form too distressing a recollection ever to be willingly dwelt on .
I could not hope to get a lodging under a roof , and sought it in the wood I have before alluded to . But my night was wretched , my rest broken : the ground was damp , the air cold : besides , intruders passed near me more than once , and I had again and again to change my quarters ; no sense of safety or tranquillity befriended me .
`` Varry like : but give ower studying ; ye 've done enough for to-night . ''
He had been a bit ailing like the day before , but naught to signify ; and when Mr. St. John asked if he would like either o ' ye to be sent for , he fair laughed at him .
I waited a few moments , expecting he would go on with the subject first broached : but he seemed to have entered another train of reflection : his look denoted abstraction from me and my business .
My father , indeed , imposed the determination , but since his death , I have not a legitimate obstacle to contend with ; some affairs settled , a successor for Morton provided , an entanglement or two of the feelings broken through or cut asunder -- a last conflict with human weakness , in which I know I shall overcome , because I have vowed that I _ will _ overcome -- and I leave Europe for the East . "
It is what I have to look forward to , and to live for . "
Nothing of course to speak of -- twenty thousand pounds , I think they say -- but what is that ? "
It seemed I had found a brother : one I could be proud of , -- one I could love ; and two sisters , whose qualities were such , that , when I knew them but as mere strangers , they had inspired me with genuine affection and admiration .
I saw he was of the material from which nature hews her heroes -- Christian and Pagan -- her lawgivers , her statesmen , her conquerors : a steadfast bulwark for great interests to rest upon ; but , at the fireside , too often a cold cumbrous column , gloomy and out of place .
He gave each one quiet kiss , said in a low tone a few words of welcome , stood a while to be talked to , and then , intimating that he supposed they would soon rejoin him in the parlour , withdrew there as to a place of refuge .
They could always talk ; and their discourse , witty , pithy , original , had such charms for me , that I preferred listening to , and sharing in it , to doing anything else .
He did not abstain from conversing with me : he even called me as usual each morning to join him at his desk ; and I fear the corrupt man within him had a pleasure unimparted to , and unshared by , the pure Christian , in evincing with what skill he could , while acting and speaking apparently just as usual , extract from every deed and every phrase the spirit of interest and approval which had formerly communicated a certain austere charm to his language and manner .
Winter snows , I thought , had drifted through that void arch , winter rains beaten in at those hollow casements ; for , amidst the drenched piles of rubbish , spring had cherished vegetation : grass and weed grew here and there between the stones and fallen rafters .
Mr. Rochester now tried to walk about : vainly , -- all was too uncertain .
`` Is that what he rang for ? '' I asked .
His old dog , Pilot , lay on one side , removed out of the way , and coiled up as if afraid of being inadvertently trodden upon .
He sat in his chair -- still , but not at rest : expectant evidently ; the lines of now habitual sadness marking his strong features .
`` The case being so , we have nothing in the world to wait for : we must be married instantly . ''
First , she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to , but it was too dark to see anything ; then she looked at the sides of the well , and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves ; here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs .
Poor Alice ! It was as much as she could do , lying down on one side , to look through into the garden with one eye ; but to get through was more hopeless than ever : she sat down and began to cry again .
' I 'm sure those are not the right words , ' said poor Alice , and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on , ' I must be Mabel after all , and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house , and have next to no toys to play with , and oh ! ever so many lessons to learn !
' You are not attending ! ' said the Mouse to Alice severely . ' What are you thinking of ? '
If they had any sense , they 'd take the roof off . ' After a minute or two , they began moving about again , and Alice heard the Rabbit say , ' A barrowful will do , to begin with . '
' I 'm afraid I ca n't put it more clearly , ' Alice replied very politely , ' for I ca n't understand it myself to begin with ; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing . '
' That depends a good deal on where you want to get to , ' said the Cat .
' To begin with , ' said the Cat , ' a dog 's not mad .
However , he consented to go on . ' And so these three little sisters -- they were learning to draw , you know -- '
She was looking about for some way of escape , and wondering whether she could get away without being seen , when she noticed a curious appearance in the air : it puzzled her very much at first , but , after watching it a minute or two , she made it out to be a grin , and she said to herself ' It 's the Cheshire Cat : now I shall have somebody to talk to . '
' How are you getting on ? ' said the Cat , as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with .
The moment Alice appeared , she was appealed to by all three to settle the question , and they repeated their arguments to her , though , as they all spoke at once , she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said .
' It 's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from , ' said the Queen .
' Reeling and Writhing , of course , to begin with , ' the Mock Turtle replied ; ' and then the different branches of Arithmetic -- Ambition , Distraction , Uglification , and Derision . '
' Why , what are your shoes done with ? ' said the Gryphon . ' I mean , what makes them so shiny ? '
He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other . ' I beg pardon , your Majesty , ' he began , ' for bringing these in : but I had n't quite finished my tea when I was sent for . '
' Wake up , Alice dear ! ' said her sister ; ' Why , what a long sleep you 've had ! ' ' Oh , I 've had such a curious dream ! ' said Alice , and she told her sister , as well as she could remember them , all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about ; and when she had finished , her sister kissed her , and said ,
The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by -- the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool -- she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal , and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution -- once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess 's knee , while plates and dishes crashed around it -- once more the shriek of the Gryphon , the squeaking of the Lizard 's slate-pencil , and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs , filled the air , mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle .
`` What are you looking for ? '' asked the master .
That was what he cared about ; he wanted town misses . " And she went on -
The matter had to be gone into . The house at Dieppe was found to be eaten up with mortgages to its foundations ; what she had placed with the notary God only knew , and her share in the boat did not exceed one thousand crowns .
He could now change his meal-times , go in or out without explanation , and when he was very tired stretch himself at full length on his bed .
All the relatives of both families had been invited , quarrels between friends arranged , acquaintances long since lost sight of written to .
To begin with , at its base there was a square of blue cardboard , representing a temple with porticoes , colonnades , and stucco statuettes all round , and in the niches constellations of gilt paper stars ; then on the second stage was a dungeon of Savoy cake , surrounded by many fortifications in candied angelica , almonds , raisins , and quarters of oranges ; and finally , on the upper platform a green field with rocks set in lakes of jam , nutshell boats , and a small Cupid balancing himself in a chocolate swing whose two uprights ended in real roses for balls at the top .
By moonlight in the garden she recited all the passionate rhymes she knew by heart , and , sighing , sang to him many melancholy adagios ; but she found herself as calm after as before , and Charles seemed no more amorous and no more moved .
On Wednesday at three o 'clock , Monsieur and Madame Bovary , seated in their dog-cart , set out for Vaubyessard , with a great trunk strapped on behind and a bonnet-box in front of the apron .
She had bought herself a blotting book , writing case , pen-holder , and envelopes , although she had no one to write to ; she dusted her what-not , looked at herself in the glass , picked up a book , and then , dreaming between the lines , let it drop on her knees .
They were airs played in other places at the theatres , sung in drawing rooms , danced to at night under lighted lustres , echoes of the world that reached even to Emma .
Before us , on the verge of the horizon , lie the oaks of the forest of Argueil , with the steeps of the Saint-Jean hills scarred from top to bottom with red irregular lines ; they are rain tracks , and these brick-tones standing out in narrow streaks against the grey colour of the mountain are due to the quantity of iron springs that flow beyond in the neighboring country .
Moreover , she had the boarders ' meal to see to , and that of the doctor , his wife , and their servant ; the billiard-room was echoing with bursts of laughter ; three millers in a small parlour were calling for brandy ; the wood was blazing , the brazen pan was hissing , and on the long kitchen table , amid the quarters of raw mutton , rose piles of plates that rattled with the shaking of the block on which spinach was being chopped .
They had whistled for him a quarter of an hour ; Hivert had even gone back a mile and a half expecting every moment to catch sight of her ; but it had been necessary to go on .
One , he said had been told of , who had come back to Paris from Constantinople .
`` One thinks of nothing , '' he continued ; " the hours slip by .
`` Have you any business to attend to ? '' she asked .
Ah ! yes ! Have I not my house to look after , my husband to attend to , a thousand things , in fact , many duties that must be considered first ? "
What help is to be hoped for , what consolation , what solace ? "
The wish took possession of her to run after and rejoin him , throw herself into his arms and say to him , `` It is I ; I am yours . ''
Where the devil does she come from ?
Drowsy pigs were burrowing in the earth with their snouts , calves were bleating , lambs baaing ; the cows , on knees folded in , were stretching their bellies on the grass , slowly chewing the cud , and blinking their heavy eyelids at the gnats that buzzed round them .
One saw folk leaning on their elbows at all the windows , others standing at doors , and Justin , in front of the chemist 's shop , seemed quite transfixed by the sight of what he was looking at .
`` For , '' said he to Emma , `` what risk is there ? See - '' ( and he enumerated on his fingers the advantages of the attempt ) , `` success , almost certain relief and beautifying of the patient , celebrity acquired by the operator . Why , for example , should not your husband relieve poor Hippolyte of the ' Lion d 'Or ' ? Note that he would not fail to tell about his cure to all the travellers , and then '' ( Homais lowered his voice and looked round him ) `` who is to prevent me from sending a short paragraph on the subject to the paper ? Eh ! goodness me ! an article gets about ; it is talked of ; it ends by making a snowball ! And who knows ? who knows ? ''
How was it that she - she , who was so intelligent - could have allowed herself to be deceived again ? and through what deplorable madness had she thus ruined her life by continual sacrifices ? She recalled all her instincts of luxury , all the privations of her soul , the sordidness of marriage , of the household , her dream sinking into the mire like wounded swallows ; all that she had longed for , all that she had denied herself , all that she might have had ! And for what ? for what ?
Emma pounced upon and opened it .
It would all have to be begun over again later on .
Then she tried to calm herself ; she recalled the letter ; she must finish it ; she did not dare to . And where ?
Thus you are not ignorant of the singularly aphrodisiac effect produced by the Nepeta cataria , vulgarly called catmint , on the feline race ; and , on the other hand , to quote an example whose authenticity I can answer for .
Then , do n't you think that perhaps her imagination should be worked upon ? "
To begin with , he did not know how he could pay Monsieur Homais for all the physic supplied by him , and though , as a medical man , he was not obliged to pay for it , he nevertheless blushed a little at such an obligation .
Bills rained in upon the house ; the tradesmen grumbled ; Monsieur Lheureux especially harassed him .
Felicite forgot ; he had other things to attend to ; then thought no more about them .
This searching after faith , she thought , was only one merit the more , and in the pride of her devoutness Emma compared herself to those grand ladies of long ago whose glory she , had dreamed of over a portrait of La Valliere , and who , trailing with so much majesty the lace-trimmed trains of their long gowns , retired into solitudes to shed at the feet of Christ all the tears of hearts that life had wounded .
But they die at the hospital , because they have n't the sense when young to lay by .
Emma answered that she thought she could do without . The shopkeeper was not to be beaten .
Charles naively asked her where this paper came from .
Then he drew from his pocket a list of goods not paid for ; to wit , the curtains , the carpet , the material for the armchairs , several dresses , and divers articles of dress , the bills for which amounted to about two thousand francs .
I need looking after .
Often she even received summonses , stamped paper that she barely looked at . She would have liked not to be alive , or to be always asleep .
She could not go on ; and yet she must .
`` Ah ! '' thought Rodolphe , turning very pale , `` that was what she came for . '' At last he said with a calm air -
To begin with , it enfranchised the slaves , introduced into the world a morality - "
And as she did not dare to , he himself stepped forward , scissors in hand .
Here the young gossips , growing warm at the memory of the entrance of monsieur the legate , both began to talk at once .
So the personages on the stage took up their parts , and Gringoire hoped that the rest of his work , at least , would be listened to .
`` He speaks when he chooses , '' said the old woman ; " he became deaf through ringing the bells .
After reflecting a moment , temporarily sheltered beneath the little wicket of the prison of the treasurer of the Sainte − Chappelle , as to the shelter which he would select for the night , having all the pavements of Paris to choose from , he remembered to have noticed the week previously in the Rue de la Savaterie , at the door of a councillor of the parliament , a stepping stone for mounting a mule , and to have said to himself that that stone would furnish , on occasion , a very excellent pillow for a mendicant or a poet .
You know no other daisies ( ~ marguerites ~ ) than those which your April greensward gives your cows to browse upon ; while I , a poet , am hooted , and shiver , and owe twelve sous , and the soles of my shoes are so transparent , that they might serve as glasses for your lantern !
If you have any mummery to go through with , there 's a very good God the Father in that mortar yonder , in stone , which we stole from Saint − Pierre aux Boeufs .
`` What the deuce is she thinking of ? '' thought Gringoire , staring at what she was gazing at ; " it is impossible that it can be that stone dwarf carved in the keystone of that arch , which thus absorbs her attention .
At length the grand peal began ; the whole tower trembled ; woodwork , leads , cut stones , all groaned at once , from the piles of the foundation to the trefoils of its summit .
Here alone is the truth . `` ( As he spoke thus , he took from the top of the coffer a phial filled with the powder which we have mentioned above ) , '' here alone is light !
The judge supposed that it had been replied to , and continued , − −
There is something in their midst that they are looking at ! "
She was alone , alone in this life , fingers were pointed at her , she was hooted at in the streets , beaten by the sergeants , jeered at by the little boys in rags .
Lying , in January , in that thin , linen sack , lying on a granite floor , without fire , in the gloom of a cell whose oblique air − hole allowed only the cold breeze , but never the sun , to enter from without , she did not appear to suffer or even to think .
Nevertheless , from her dull eyes there escaped a look , an ineffable look , a profound , lugubrious , imperturbable look , incessantly fixed upon a corner of the cell which could not be seen from without ; a gaze which seemed to fix all the sombre thoughts of that soul in distress upon some mysterious object .
Her hands remained clasped ; her lips mute ; her eyes fixed ; and that little shoe , thus gazed at , broke the heart of any one who knew her history .
Meanwhile , the young girl was waiting to be spoken to , in such emotion that she dared not raise her eyelids .
All Paris lay at his feet , with the thousand spires of its edifices and its circular horizon of gentle hills − − with its river winding under its bridges , and its people moving to and fro through its streets , − − with the clouds of its smoke , − − with the mountainous chain of its roofs which presses Notre − Dame in its doubled folds ; but out .of all the city , the archdeacon gazed at one corner only of the pavement , the Place du Parvis ; in all that throng at but one figure , − − the gypsy .
`` What are you come for ? ''
`` What are you driving at ? '' he said dryly .
What was I thinking of to thrust myself into that stone gimlet which pierces the sky ; all for the sake of eating bearded cheese , and looking at the bell − towers of Paris through a hole in the wall ! "
This was what he appeared to be waiting for .
More than once my flesh had been moved as a woman 's form passed by .
Fashionable society of that day hardly knew the name of the victim who passed by at the corner of the street , and it was the populace at the most who regaled themselves with this coarse fare .
Queue − en − Brie was a very insipid place to stay at then , a village of farriers , and cow − girls with chapped hands , a long line of poor dwellings and thatched cottages , which borders the grand road on both sides for half a league ; a tail ( queue ) , in short , as its name imports .
The condemned girl remained motionless in her place , waiting to be disposed of .
When she had passed on , he began to descend the staircase again , with the slowness which he had observed in the spectre , believing himself to be a spectre too , haggard , with hair on end , his extinguished lamp still in his hand ; and as he descended the spiral steps , he distinctly heard in his ear a voice laughing and repeating , − −
Quasimodo looked on from below at this scene which was all the more pleasing to witness because it was not meant to be seen .
`` Executioner ! '' grumbled Louis XI . , `` what are you driving at ? ''
In the first place , here is what has happened . − − All this will not be laughed at .
The unhappy Esmeralda dropped her head beneath her flowing hair , comprehending that it was no human being she had to deal with .
She set her daughter ( down for she was still carrying her ) , in one corner of the cell which was not visible from without .
Gudule 's horribly compressed heart now dilated , and she said in a low voice , as she cast a glance at her daughter , whom she had not ventured to look at while they were there , `` Saved ! ''
Only at a distance , at the summit of that one of the towers of Notre − Dame which commands the Grève , two men outlined in black against the light morning sky , and who seemed to be looking on , were visible .
Quasimodo , advancing with the tread of a wolf behind him , went to see what he was gazing at thus .
But the priest was not listening to , was not looking at , anything of all this .
Thus he saw what the priest was looking at .
He was slim but firmly built , his clothes were black and close-fitting , with many folds and pockets , buckles and buttons and a belt , all of which gave the impression of being very practical but without making it very clear what they were actually for .
`` Anna should have brought me my breakfast , '' said K. He tried to work out who the man actually was , first in silence , just through observation and by thinking about it , but the man did n't stay still to be looked at for very long .
`` I want neither to stay here nor to be spoken to by you until you 've introduced yourself . '' `` I meant it for your own good , '' said the stranger and opened the door , this time without being asked .
`` She 's not allowed to , '' said the big policeman . `` You 're under arrest , are n't you . ''
`` And what do you want us to do about it ? '' replied the big policeman , loudly . " The way you 're carrying on , it 's worse than a child .
These gentlemen first accost me , and now they sit or stand about in here and let me be hauled up in front of you .
I expect you 'll want to go in to the bank now , wo n't you . "
He had no particular desire for her , he could not even remember what she looked like , but now he wanted to speak to her and it irritated him that her late arrival home meant this day would be full of unease and disorder right to its very end .
`` Sit down , '' she said , indicating the ottoman , while she herself remained standing by the bedpost despite the tiredness she had spoken of ; she did not even take off her hat , which was small but decorated with an abundance of flowers . " What is it you wanted , then ?
`` What 's too vague ? '' asked K. Then he remembered himself and asked , `` Would you like me to show you what it was like ? '' He wanted to move in some way but did not want to leave .
He had thought that he would recognise the building from a distance by some kind of sign , without knowing exactly what the sign would look like , or from some particular kind of activity outside the entrance .
It turned out , though , that that was mostly possible without further ado , as almost all the doors were left open and the children ran in and out .
`` Yes , '' said the woman , `` please go on in . ''
`` Those are the official notes of the examining judge , '' he said , and let the notebook fall down onto the desk . `` You can read in your book as much as you like , sir , I really do n't have anything in this charge book to be afraid of , even though I do n't have access to it as I would n't want it in my hand , I can only touch it with two fingers . ''
`` I 'm not trying to be a successful orator , '' said K. after this thought , " that 's probably more than I 'm capable of anyway .
`` I merely wanted to draw your attention , '' said the judge , `` to something you seem not yet to be aware of : today , you have robbed yourself of the advantages that a hearing of this sort always gives to someone who is under arrest . ''
Carry on with these people in the same way as you have been , as it does seem to me to be something you can not do without .
But even that is nothing for you to worry about when you consider that there 's nothing hanging on the outcome of this trial , and that , whatever the verdict , I will just laugh at it .
Yesterday , he sent that student to me , the one he really trusts and who he works with , he sent him with a present for me , silk stockings . He said it was because I clear up in the courtroom but that 's only a pretence , that job 's no more than what I 'm supposed to do , it 's what my husband gets paid for .
It was of course nothing to worry about , he accepted the setback only because he was looking for a fight .
So off I go running as fast as I can , shout the message through the crack in the door of the office I 've been sent to , so out of breath they 'll hardly be able to understand it , run back here again , but the student 's been even faster than I have - well he 's got less far to go , he 's only got to run down the steps .
Then the usher of the court stepped forward to him and , in order to calm him down and raise his spirits , said , " The gentleman here 's only asking what it is you 're waiting for .
In order to put an end to his discomfort , K. finally said , `` Now that I 've seen what it looks like here , I 'd like to go . ''
`` It 's nothing for you to worry about , '' she said , " that 's nothing unusual here , almost everyone gets an attack like that the first time they come here .
`` There 's nothing there for you to worry about '' said K. , crushing the remains of a sugar lump in his cup .
You know I 'd do anything for you , to some extent I am still your guardian , and until today that 's something I was proud of .
The photograph was not one that had been taken while Elsa was posing for it , it showed her just after she had been in a wild dance such as she liked to do in wine bars , her skirt was still flung out as she span round , she had placed her hands on her firm hips and , with her neck held taut , looked to one side with a laugh ; you could not see from the picture whom her laugh was intended for .
If anything about the individual charges and the reasons for them comes out clearly or can be guessed at while the accused is being questioned , then it 's possible to work out and submit documents that really direct the issue and present proof , but not before .
However , when this happens , you should never trust them too far , as however firmly they may have declared this new point of view in favour of the defendant they might well go straight back to their offices and write a report for the court that says just the opposite , and might well be even harder on the defendant than the original view , the one they insist they 've been fully dissuaded from .
But even for the junior officials , the proceedings in the courtrooms are usually kept secret , so they are hardly able to see how the cases they work with proceed , court affairs appear in their range of vision often without their knowing where they come from and they move on further without their learning where they go .
Those who were at the bottom of the steps could not believe it at first , so they sent somebody out to go and look behind the door to see if there really was no-one there , and only then did they all gather together and probably did n't even dare to complain , as it 's far from being the lawyers ' job to introduce any improvements in the court system , or even to want to .
You come home one day and find all the documents you 've submitted , which you 've worked hard to create and which you had the best hopes for , lying on the desk , they 've been sent back as they ca n't be carried through to the next stage in the trial , they 're just worthless scraps of paper .
The first set of documents to be submitted were being worked on but still not ready , which usually turned out to be a great advantage the next time K. went to see him as the earlier occasion would have been a very bad time to put them in , which they could not then have known .
The lawyer had told him , as he talked to him , that that was something unheard of and would probably do him a great deal of harm , but K. could not tolerate any impediment to his efforts where his trial was concerned , and these impediments were probably caused by the lawyer himself .
Now , in contrast , if he was to conduct his defence himself , he would have to devote himself entirely to the court - for the time being , at least - success would mean , later on , his complete and conclusive liberation , but if he was to achieve this he would have to place himself , to start with , in far greater danger than he had been in so far .
So what could K. hope for ?
But to K. , it once more seemed suspicious that the manufacturer did not want to show him the papers and saw nothing about his comments to laugh at .
But it was only the manufacturer 's comment that made K. realise what dangers that could lead to .
`` What are you so surprised at ? '' he asked , surprised in his turn . " Those are court offices .
`` I 'd be glad to , '' said the businessman .
`` And what sort of progress had you been hoping for ? '' asked K.
He explained it all to me at length , but refused to do anything I asked for , no-one has any influence on the way the trial proceeds , he said , to try and insist on it in any of the documents submitted - like I was asking - was simply unheard of and would do harm to both him and me .
And before you say anything : none of them asked for a definite date for the main trial and none of them got one , and anyway , apart form one exception which I 'll talk about in a minute , it really is impossible , that 's one thing this lawyer did n't mislead me about ; but besides , I had no reason to regret turning to other lawyers .
There 's nothing in that for me to be ashamed of . "
`` Be glad to , '' said K. , and did as the lawyer suggested ; he was always ready to learn something new .
When the lawyer started speaking Block had stopped looking at the bed but stared rather into one of the corners , just listening , as if the light from the speaker were brighter than Block could bear to look at .
And I want to be spoken to as a gentleman , especially by you .
So these were the lawyer 's methods , which K. fortunately had not been exposed to for long , to let the client forget about the whole world and leave him with nothing but the hope of reaching the end of his trial by this deluded means .
K. went over to a nearby side chapel to see what they could have hoped for , he went up a few steps to a low marble railing and leant over it to look at the altar picture by the light of his torch .
`` Then you are the one I am looking for , '' said the priest . `` I am the prison chaplain . ''
They see his ideas of what 's inside the law as rather childish , and suppose he 's afraid himself of what he wants to make the man frightened of .
Also , although he 's in the service of the law he 's only there for this one entrance , therefore he 's there only in the service of this one man who the door 's intended for .
We can take it that he 's been performing this somewhat empty service for many years , through the whole of a man 's life , as it says that a man will come , that means someone old enough to be a man . That means the doorkeeper will have to wait a long time before his function is fulfilled , he will have to wait for as long as the man liked , who came to the door of his own free will .
At the end , speaking about the entrance he says , ' Now I 'll go and close it ' , although at the beginning of the story it says the door to the law is open as it always is , but if it 's always open - always - that means it 's open independently of the lifespan of the man it 's intended for , and not even the doorkeeper will be able to close it .
Despite all the effort they went to , and despite all the co-operation shown by K. , his demeanour seemed very forced and hard to believe .
He felt a slight itch up on his belly ; pushed himself slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better ; found where the itch was , and saw that it was covered with lots of little white spots which he did n't know what to make of ; and when he tried to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder .
Despite all the difficulty he was in , he could not suppress a smile at this thought .
You barricade yourself in your room , give us no more than yes or no for an answer , you are causing serious and unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and I mention this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in a way that is quite unheard of .
That was something his parents did not understand very well ; over the years , they had become convinced that this job would provide for Gregor for his entire life , and besides , they had so much to worry about at present that they had lost sight of any thought for the future .
And without considering that he still was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present state , or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - be understood , he let go of the door ; pushed himself through the opening ; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who , ridiculously , was holding on to the banister with both hands ; but Gregor fell immediately over and , with a little scream as he sought something to hold onto , landed on his numerous little legs .
That 's to say , it was money that should not really be touched but set aside for emergencies ; money to live on had to be earned .
The uniform had not been new to start with , but as a result of this it slowly became even shabbier despite the efforts of Gregor 's mother and sister to look after it . Gregor would often spend the whole evening looking at all the stains on this coat , with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny , while the old man in it would sleep , highly uncomfortable but peaceful .
The household budget became even smaller ; so now the maid was dismissed ; an enormous , thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest work ; everything else was looked after by Gregor 's mother on top of the large amount of sewing work she did .
Gregor even learned , listening to the evening conversation about what price they had hoped for , that several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold , even though both mother and sister had been very fond of wearing them at functions and celebrations .
He could see quite well , though , that there were more reasons than consideration for him that made it difficult for them to move , it would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate with a few air holes in it ; the main thing holding the family back from their decision to move was much more to do with their total despair , and the thought that they had been struck with a misfortune unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related to .
Other times he was not at all in the mood to look after his family , he was filled with simple rage about the lack of attention he was shown , and although he could think of nothing he would have wanted , he made plans of how he could get into the pantry where he could take all the things he was entitled to , even if he was not hungry .
Just by chance one day , rather than any real curiosity , she opened the door to Gregor 's room and found herself face to face with him . He was taken totally by surprise , no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in front of her .
Gregor never responded to being spoken to in that way , but just remained where he was without moving as if the door had never even been opened .
The woman most likely meant to fetch the things back out again when she had time and the opportunity , or to throw everything out in one go , but what actually happened was that they were left where they landed when they had first been thrown unless Gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere else . At first he moved it because , with no other room free where he could crawl about , he was forced to , but later on he came to enjoy it although moving about in that the way left him sad and tired to death and he would remain immobile for hours afterwards .
`` Oh yes , we 'd love to , '' called back Gregor 's father as if he had been the violin player himself .
It seemed to him that he was being shown the way to the unknown nourishment he had been yearning for .
`` Father , Mother , '' said his sister , hitting the table with her hand as introduction , " we ca n't carry on like this .
The charwoman stood in the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous good news to report , but would only do it if she was clearly asked to .
And whatever you may do or provide against , they never forget that name or their privileges unless they are disunited or dispersed , but at every chance they immediately rally to them , as Pisa after the hundred years she had been held in bondage by the Florentines .
But to come to those who , by their own ability and not through fortune , have risen to be princes , I say that Moses , Cyrus , Romulus , Theseus , and such like are the most excellent examples .
Therefore , a prince who has a strong city , and had not made himself odious , will not be attacked , or if any one should attack he will only be driven off with disgrace ; again , because that the affairs of this world are so changeable , it is almost impossible to keep an army a whole year in the field without being interfered with .
Such things Julius not only followed , but improved upon , and he intended to gain Bologna , to ruin the Venetians , and to drive the French out of Italy . All of these enterprises prospered with him , and so much the more to his credit , inasmuch as he did everything to strengthen the Church and not any private person .
And if it be urged that whoever is armed will act in the same way , whether mercenary or not , I reply that when arms have to be resorted to , either by a prince or a republic , then the prince ought to go in person and perform the duty of a captain ; the republic has to send its citizens , and when one is sent who does not turn out satisfactorily , it ought to recall him , and when one is worthy , to hold him by the laws so that he does not leave the command .
And the way to make ready one 's own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be reflected upon , and if one will consider how Philip , the father of Alexander the Great , and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves , to which rules I entirely commit myself .
And he would set forth to them , as he went , all the chances that could befall an army ; he would listen to their opinion and state his , confirming it with reasons , so that by these continual discussions there could never arise , in time of war , any unexpected circumstances that he could not deal with .
Therefore , putting on one side imaginary things concerning a prince , and discussing those which are real , I say that all men when they are spoken of , and chiefly princes for being more highly placed , are remarkable for some of those qualities which bring them either blame or praise ; and thus it is that one is reputed liberal , another miserly , using a Tuscan term ( because an avaricious person in our language is still he who desires to possess by robbery , whilst we call one miserly who deprives himself too much of the use of his own ) ; one is reputed generous , one rapacious ; one cruel , one compassionate ; one faithless , another faithful ; one effeminate and cowardly , another bold and brave ; one affable , another haughty ; one lascivious , another chaste ; one sincere , another cunning ; one hard , another easy ; one grave , another frivolous ; one religious , another unbelieving , and the like .
This will soon make him odious to his subjects , and becoming poor he will be little valued by any one ; thus , with his liberality , having offended many and rewarded few , he is affected by the very first trouble and imperilled by whatever may be the first danger ; recognizing this himself , and wishing to draw back from it , he runs at once into the reproach of being miserly .
It may be answered that one should wish to be both , but , because it is difficult to unite them in one person , it is much safer to be feared than loved , when , of the two , either must be dispensed with .
And that prince who , relying entirely on their promises , has neglected other precautions , is ruined ; because friendships that are obtained by payments , and not by greatness or nobility of mind , may indeed be earned , but they are not secured , and in time of need can not be relied upon ; and men have less scruple in offending one who is beloved than one who is feared , for love is preserved by the link of obligation which , owing to the baseness of men , is broken at every opportunity for their advantage ; but fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never fails .
For that reason , let a prince have the credit of conquering and holding his state , the means will always be considered honest , and he will be praised by everybody ; because the vulgar are always taken by what a thing seems to be and by what comes of it ; and in the world there are only the vulgar , for the few find a place there only when the many have no ground to rest on .
There is first to note that , whereas in other principalities the ambition of the nobles and the insolence of the people only have to be contended with , the Roman emperors had a third difficulty in having to put up with the cruelty and avarice of their soldiers , a matter so beset with difficulties that it was the ruin of many ; for it was a hard thing to give satisfaction both to soldiers and people ; because the people loved peace , and for this reason they loved the unaspiring prince , whilst the soldiers loved the warlike prince who was bold , cruel , and rapacious , which qualities they were quite willing he should exercise upon the people , so that they could get double pay and give vent to their own greed and cruelty .
Again , it much assists a prince to set unusual examples in internal affairs , similar to those which are related of Messer Bernabo da Milano , who , when he had the opportunity , by any one in civil life doing some extraordinary thing , either good or bad , would take some method of rewarding or punishing him , which would be much spoken about .
With these councillors , separately and collectively , he ought to carry himself in such a way that each of them should know that , the more freely he shall speak , the more he shall be preferred ; outside of these , he should listen to no one , pursue the thing resolved on , and be steadfast in his resolutions .
The windows were long , narrow , and pointed , and at so vast a distance from the black oaken floor as to be altogether inaccessible from within .
But the fervid facility of his impromptus could not be so accounted for .
' How often must I tell you to let me know at once when anyone is here ? '
Should not a new cook be sent for ? '
Has the milk been sent for ? '
He could not remember his mother , and his sister was much his senior , so that in the Shcherbatskys ' house he saw for the first time the family life of a well-educated and honourable family of the old aristocracy - a life such as he had been deprived of by the death of his own father and mother .
Listening to his brother 's conversation with the professor , he noticed that they connected the scientific question with the spiritual and several times almost reached the latter , but every time they approached this , which seemed to him the most important question , they at once hurriedly retreated and again plunged into the domain of fine sub-divisions , reservations , quotations hints and references to authorities ; and he found it difficult to understand what they were talking about .
Do you know ? ' Levin rose from his chair as if meaning to go at once .
' What , to begin with ?
We try to get our hands into a state convenient to work with , and for that purpose we cut our nails and sometimes roll up our sleeves .
Afterwards at an appointed time and place the expected proposal was made to , and accepted by , her parents .
The Russian way , of employing a professional match-maker , was considered monstrous , and was laughed at by everybody , including the Princess herself .
Only now did she realize that this matter ( with whom she would be happy , who was the man she loved ) did not concern herself alone , but that in a moment she would have to wound a man she cared for , and to wound him cruelly ...
She was right , because Levin really could not bear her and despised her for the very thing she was proud of and regarded as a merit , that is , her nervousness and refined contempt and disregard for all the rough and common things of life .
He passed in review the places he might go to .
In the depths of his heart he did not respect his mother and ( though this he never acknowledged to himself ) did not love her , but in accordance with the views of the set he lived in , and as a result of his education , he could not imagine himself treating her in any way but one altogether submissive and respectful ; the more submissive and respectful he was externally , the less he honoured and loved her in his heart .
I have turned over in my mind everything I could think of , and can find nothing . '
So now you know whom you have to deal with , and if you fear you will be degraded - there is the door . '
The hero of the novel had nearly attained to his English happiness of a baronetcy and an estate , and Anna wanted to go to the estate with him , when she suddenly felt that he must have been ashamed , and that she was ashamed of the same thing , - but what was he ashamed of ?
There was nothing to be ashamed of .
She recalled the ball and Vronsky and his humble , enamoured gaze , and their relations with one another ; there was nothing to be ashamed of .
Listening to Petritsky 's familiar tales , in the familiar surroundings of the house he had lived in for three years , Vronsky experienced the satisfaction of returning to his customary careless Petersburg life .
' We can not , as you know , determine the beginning of a tuberculous process . As long as there are no cavities there is nothing definite to go by .
' There is nothing for me to grieve for or seek comfort about .
To their surprise the lovely one stops at the door of the very house they are going to .
Petritsky ; whom Vronsky was fond of , was mixed up in the affair , and so was young Prince Kedrov , a first-rate fellow and a capital comrade , who had lately joined the regiment .
The conversation in both circles , as always happens at first , hesitated for a few minutes , was interrupted by greetings , recognitions , and offers of tea , and seemed to be seeking something to settle on .
This conversation did not flag , since it hinted at what could not be spoken of in this room , namely , at the relations existing between Tushkevich and their hostess .
' What you have just referred to was a mistake , and not love . '
' And what is most terrible of all , ' thought he , ' is that , just now , when my work is coming to completion ' ( he was thinking of the project he was then carrying through ) , ' when I need peace and all my powers of mind , just now this stupid anxiety falls on me .
But each time he began to speak with her he felt the same spirit of evil and falsehood which had taken possession of her master him also , and he neither said the things he meant to , nor spoke in the tone he had meant to adopt .
Besides this , it proved that the harrows and all the agricultural implements which he had ordered to be examined and mended in winter , for which purpose three carpenters had been specially engaged , had not been seen to , and that the harrows were now being mended when it was time to start harrowing .
You have got all you are fond of .
' I should not try to teach you the things you scribble about at your office , ' he said , ' but in case of need would come to you for advice about them , but you are firmly convinced that you understand all this forest lore .
' But whom are you driving at ?
Levin 's vehemence sincerely pleased him . ' Whom are you driving at ?
But his friends understood at once that it was not only there that he was going .
It brought on with tenfold force an attack of that strange repulsion to - he knew not whom ; but at the same time he felt that the crisis he had hoped for had now come , that concealment from the husband was no longer possible , and that somehow or other the unnatural situation must be quickly ended .
The country house the Karenins regularly occupied in summer was in Peterhof , and generally the Countess Lydia Ivanovna also lived near by and was in constant touch with Anna .
When after Makhotin and Vronsky had jumped the big barrier the officer following them fell on his head and swooned , a murmur of horror passed through the whole crowd ; but Karenin saw that Anna did not even notice the fall and with difficulty understood what those around her were talking about .
' Fürst Shcherbatsky sammt Gemahlin und Tochter , ' [ Prince Shcherbatsky with his wife and daughter . ] by the premises they occupied , by their name , and by the people they were acquainted with , at once crystallized into their definite and preordained place .
Having learnt all these particulars , the Princess saw nothing to object to in a friendship between her daughter and Varenka , especially as Varenka 's manners and education were excellent - she spoke French and English admirably , and , above all , she brought Madame Stahl 's regrets at having been deprived through illness of the pleasure of making the Princess 's acquaintance .
This was a lofty , mystical religion connected with a series of beautiful thoughts and feelings , which it was not only possible to believe because one was told to , but even to love .
QUITE TOWARD THE END OF THE SEASON Prince Shcherbatsky , who from Carlsbad had gone on to Baden and Kissingen to see some Russian friends and to ' inhale some Russian spirit , ' as he expressed it , returned to his family .
Now tell me what am I to be pleased about ?
In the morning I have to get up and dress at once and go down to the dining-room to drink bad tea .
Words seemed to detract from the beauty of what he was looking at .
' What are they talking about , and why do n't they start another swath ? ' thought Levin . It did not occur to him that the peasants , who had been mowing unceasingly for four hours , wanted their breakfast .
And while doing this he noted everything he came to : now he plucked a sorrel stalk and ate it , or offered it to Levin ; now he threw aside a branch with the point of his scythe , or examined a quail 's nest from which the hen bird had flown up , almost under the scythe ; or he caught a beetle , lifting it with the scythe-point as with a fork , and after showing it to Levin , threw it away .
Besides this she liked the idea of going to her house in the country because she intended to get her sister Kitty , who was to return from abroad at midsummer and who had been ordered bathing , to join her there .
There was nowhere to hang dresses , because what few wardrobes there were would not shut , or else opened of themselves when anyone passed by .
Often when watching her children she made great efforts to convince herself that she was mistaken , that being their mother she was not impartial ; and yet she could not help telling herself that they were charming children , all the six , each in his or her own way , all of them such as are rarely to be met with ; and she was happy in them and proud of them .
' Yes , but all that has to be looked after , and who is going to do it ? ' remarked Dolly unwillingly .
The pain she had inflicted on herself and her husband would now , she thought , be compensated for by the fact that the matter would be settled .
She had not the courage to look into the eyes of the people she lived with . She could not make up her mind to call her maid , and still less to go down and face her son and his governess .
' Yes , especially as I can not stay long . I must go to the old Countess Vrede - I promised to , ages ago , ' said Anna , to whom falsehood - so alien to her by nature - had now become so simple and natural in Society that it even gave her pleasure .
' That is the best way , ' Stremov joined in . Stremov was a man of about fifty , getting grey , but still fresh looking , with a very plain though intelligent face full of character .
He began by first attacking his money problems , as the easiest to deal with .
Their mother , who had her own private fortune , allowed Alexis about 20,000 roubles a year in addition to the 25,000 agreed upon , and Alexis spent it all .
' We will come in a minute , ' Vronsky shouted to an officer who looked in , having been sent by the C.O. to call them .
I am proud of my position because ... proud of ... proud ... ' she could not say what she was proud of .
Levin saw signs of this in the way the man was dressed - he wore an old-fashioned shiny coat which he was evidently not used to - and in his intelligent , dismal eyes , his well-turned Russian , his authoritative tone , evidently acquired by long practice , and in the firm movement of his fine large sunburnt hands , the right one having an old wedding-ring on the third finger .
' Oh yes , it is all child 's play for us : we have discovered what Europe is looking for !
' But what have they arrived at ? '
' What is it you are looking at ? ' he asked Levin , who , having stopped at the round table , was looking at one of the journals .
' I still can not understand what you are surprised at .
It was evidently all the same to him what conclusions his reasoning led to : he only needed the process itself , and he did not like it when the process of reasoning led him up a blind alley .
He remarked that he had always said so but had not been listened to .
Yes it is an aim worth working for !
' That must form a short preface , such as I formerly considered unnecessary . ' He rose to go to his writing-table , and Laska , who was lying at his feet , stretched herself , also got up , and looked round at him as if asking where she was to go to .
' I only think that the force of labour must be dealt with in a scientifically experimental manner . It must be studied and its characteristics ... '
There used to be slaves everywhere , then villeins ; and we have labour paid in kind , and leaseholders , and hired labour : so what are you looking for ? '
But no matter ! I can not hide , ' he thought ; and with the manner ; habitual to him since childhood , of one who has nothing to be ashamed of , Vronsky got out of his sledge and went to the door .
Could he talk to her and call her by her Christian name ? ' And without meaning to , she again mimicked him : ' Ma chère Anna ; my dear ! '
' Divorce , under our laws , ' he said , with a slight shade of disapproval of the laws , ' as you are aware , may be granted in the following cases ... You must wait ! ' he exclaimed , addressing his assistant who had looked in at the door ; but he rose all the same , spoke a few words to his assistant , and sat down again .
I must add that the latter case is seldom met with in practice , ' and with a momentary glance at Karenin the lawyer became suddenly silent , like a man who when selling pistols has described the advantages of the different kinds , and waits for his customer 's decision .
And the solutions arrived at were in accord with Karenin 's opinions .
' Never mind ! Tell them I will pay ! ' and nodding his head to an acquaintance who was driving past he disappeared round the corner .
That day he had two matters to see to : to interview a deputation from a subject-race which was in Moscow at that time , and give them instructions , and to write to the lawyer as he had promised .
Karenin had expected to enter at once upon the cool relation in which he would henceforth stand toward the brother of the wife against whom he was beginning divorce proceedings ; but he had not counted upon the flood of kindliness which overflowed the banks of Oblonsky 's soul .
I was obliged to ... '
To have a drink at the Chateau des Fleurs would be more in my line . ' The old Prince sat silent , his shining eyes looking askance at Karenin , and Oblonsky saw that he had already prepared some remark wherewith to polish off that dignitary of State , whom people were invited to as to a dish of sturgeon .
' Alexis Alexandrovich , forgive me , I have no right to ... but I love Anna like a sister , and respect her and I beg , I implore you to tell me what has happened between you , what do you accuse her of ? '
' I can not forgive ; I do n't wish to and do n't think it would be right .
The first contained the news that Stremov had obtained the very appointment Karenin had been hoping for . He threw down the telegram and flushed .
But what can they be aiming at ?
By his sick wife 's bedside he had for the first time in his life given rein to that feeling of tender sympathy which the suffering of others evoked in him ; and which he had till then been ashamed of , as of a weakness ; and his pity for her , remorse at having wished for her death , and above all the joy of forgiving , in itself gave him not only relief from suffering but inward peace such as he had never before experienced .
' Whom could I speak to ?
The one thing she was longing for was to get rid of his obnoxious presence .
' Yes , but under these circumstances how is an explanation to be arrived at ? ...
To him , as an agnostic who yet respected the religious beliefs of others , it was always very trying to be present at , or to take part in , any religious ceremony .
What does it matter what I write about ?
When he was alone , Levin , thinking over the remarks of the three bachelors , once more asked himself whether there was in his soul any of that regret for his freedom that they had been speaking about .
' What are you thinking about ?
She could not think of or desire anything but life with this man ; but , as that life had not yet begun , she could not even clearly picture it to herself .
When what was necessary had at length been complied with , he made the sign of the cross over them with the rings and again gave the larger one to Kitty and the little one to Levin , and again they blundered and passed the rings twice backwards and forwards without doing what was necessary .
After an absent-minded glance at the man who was still standing there watching him , he was about to go in .
But had he , and those who understood the matter in the ' right ' way , been asked what this understanding amounted to , they would have been much puzzled how to reply .
Yet Vronsky was surprised at , and sorry to see , the irritable excitement with which Golenishchev spoke on the subject that interested him .
On the one hand this memory was too terrible to dwell upon , and on the other hand her husband 's misfortune had meant for her too great a joy for repentance to be possible .
The pleasures of a bachelor 's life , enjoyed by him on his previous travels abroad , were not to be thought of now , for one attempt of that kind had produced in Anna an unexpected fit of depression quite disproportionate to the offence of a late supper with some acquaintances .
' Here we live and know nothing , ' said Vronsky one morning to Golenishchev , who had come to see him . ' Have you seen Mikhaylov 's picture ? ' and he passed his visitor a Russian newspaper that had just arrived , and pointed to an article on a Russian artist who was living in that town , and had just finished a picture long talked of and bought before completion .
Moreover , he saw that if technique were spoken of , then he could not be praised for it .
What was he thinking about ?
For a moment he felt like a man who , receiving a blow from behind , angrily and revengefully turns round to find his assailant and realizes that he has accidentally knocked himself , that there is no one to be angry with and that he must endure and try to still the pain .
' I am afraid to , ' answered Mary Nikolavna .
Had Levin now been alone with his brother Nicholas , he would have looked at him with horror , and would have waited about in still greater horror not knowing what to do next .
Not only could he not think of supper , of getting ready for the night , of considering what they were to do , he could not even talk to his wife : he was ashamed to .
' I am weak - I am done for !
He still held an important post , was member of many Commissions and Committees , but he was finished , and from him nothing further was to be looked for .
Whatever he might say , whatever he might propose , he was listened to as if all he was proposing had long been known and was what no one wanted .
But what can it lead to ?
' But I can see better without a candle what I have been praying for !
She could not share it with Vronsky and did not wish to .
GREATLY AS ANNA HAD DESIRED TO SEE HER SON , and long as she had thought of and prepared herself for the interview , she had not at all expected that it would affect her so powerfully .
Let me have them , ' she added , with a rapid movement taking from Vronsky the photos he was looking at , and glancing at him impressively with glistening eyes .
To these oases Vronsky at once turned his attention and immediately got into touch with them .
Yes , what were we talking about ? ' he concluded after a pause .
What are you dissatisfied with ? ' she said with the same smile .
I have lived many years , and now in you for the first time I have met what I was in search of .
He wished to bring her back to her first remark about her childhood ; but without wishing to , after a pause , he replied to her last words :
' What can you be thinking of , since men do not exist for me ? They do n't !
' Why , but three steps will add to its length as well ... Where will it get to ? '
The moon , which was still giving light when first he went out , now shone only like quicksilver ; the streak of dawn , previously so noticeable , now had to be looked for ; what had been vague spots on the distant field were now clearly visible .
' But I ca n't go , ' thought she . ' Where should I go to ?
' Oh , she is a horrid child ! ' she cried , addressing Levin . ' Where do these vile tendencies in her come from ? '
Well , supposing the best : that none of the other children die , and that I somehow succeed in bringing them up ; at the very best they will only escape being ne 'er-do-wells . That is all I can hope for .
The clerk , to hide his embarrassment , bustled about , helping the ladies in , but Philip became morose and made up his mind not to be imposed upon by this eternal superiority .
Feeling embarrassed , she tried to think of something to talk about .
' I do n't understand anything about horses , and shall be very pleased to , ' answered Dolly , taken rather by surprise .
She had nothing to change into as she was already wearing her best dress ; but to give some sign that she had prepared for dinner , she asked the maid to brush her dress , and she put on clean cuffs , pinned a fresh bow to her dress and placed some lace in her hair .
The price of the wire must be allowed for . ] and the German , drawn from his silence , turned to Vronsky . ' Das lässt sich ausrechnen , Erlaucht ! '
' There 's nothing to be surprised at , considering how much I hear and see of it , ' said Anna . ' And you , I 'm sure , do n't even know what houses are made of ! '
' But tell me about yourself . I have much to talk to you about and I have been talking with ...
She smiled . ' Well then , what did he talk about to you ? '
And however white and shapely her bare arms may be , however beautiful her full figure and her flushed face surrounded by that black hair - he will find others still more beautiful , as my horrid , pitiable and dear husband looks for and finds them ! '
He did not wish to ask her what they had been talking about , but hoped that she would tell him of her own accord .
Their life seemed one that could not be improved upon : they had ample means , good health , a child , and both had occupations of their own .
Levin had also some very important business to attend to in Kashin for his sister who lived abroad . It was in connection with a wardship and the receiving of money due to her for land transferred to the peasants .
In the cathedral Levin , with the others , raised his hand , repeating the words of the priest , and swore by the most awful oaths to fulfil all the things the Governor had hoped for .
The Act provided that in case of a difference of opinion the question should be balloted upon .
The leaders of both parties were making estimates and calculating on their fingers the white and black balls they could reckon on .
' As candidate for the post of Provincial Marshal , Captain Eugene Ivanich Apukhtin will now be balloted for . ' Then followed a dead silence , and a feeble voice was heard saying :
' Court Councillor Peter Petrovich Bol will now be balloted for , ' cried the voice of the man in uniform .
Levin , leaning over the balustrade , looked on and listened .
She could not think without horror of where men drove to in such cases .
Levin had forgotten the commission he had been charged with and only remembered it when on his way to the ante-room .
' You ca n't follow without it , ' said Pestsov turning to Levin , as the man he had been talking to had gone away and he had no one else to talk to .
She now has a little English girl , and a whole family she is interested in . '
To forgive , she would have to live through what I have lived through , and may God preserve her from that ! '
Levin listened to them and at the same time involuntarily thought of the past and of what had been going on before that morning , remembering himself as he had been yesterday before this event .
What is she thinking about ?
' I am hard up ; have nothing to live on . '
You understand what I am speaking about ? ' she said , lifting her beautiful dreamy eyes .
Sin does not exist for a believer ; sin has already been atoned for ...
OBLONSKY FELT COMPLETELY PUZZLED by the strange and novel language he was listening to .
But she immediately began to wonder what those two young girls could be smiling at . ' Love , probably !
' I will be sure to , ' repeated Kitty naively , looking compassionately into her eyes .
She imagined him now calmly conversing with his mother and the Princess Sorokina , and rejoicing at her sufferings . ' Yes , I must go at once , ' she thought , not yet sure where to go to .
' And the dog you have with you wo n't help you ! You ca n't escape from yourselves . '
Glancing in the direction in which Peter was looking she saw a workman , nearly dead-drunk , with his head swaying about , who was being led off somewhere by a policeman . ' That one is more likely to , ' she thought .
Now that is past . There is nothing to be proud of .
Why not put out the candle , if there is nothing more to look at ? If everything is repulsive to look at ?
The young men did not leave her in peace . Gazing into her face and laughing and shouting unnaturally they again passed by .
Among the people to whom he belonged , nothing was written or talked about at that time except the Serbian war .
' Where to ? '
' Yes , it 's particularly artillerymen they are short of , ' said Katavasov .
' As a man I have this quality , that I do not value my life at all and that I have physical energy enough to hack my way into a square and slay or fall - that I am sure of .
' You will recover , I prophesy it , ' said Koznyshev , feeling touched . ' To free one 's brothers from oppression is an aim worth both dying and living for .
And having arranged that Levin should be sent for and that the dusty visitors should be shown where to wash - one of them in Levin 's study and the other in Dolly 's former room - and about lunch for them , Kitty , exercising the right of moving quickly of which she had been deprived during pregnancy , ran up the balcony stairs .
Were they not pretending ? Or did they understand possibly in some different and clearer way than he , the answers science gives to the questions he was concerned with ?
He said we must not live for our needs - that is , we must not live for what we understand and what attracts us , what we wish for , but must live for something incomprehensible , for God whom nobody can understand or define .
I and millions of men who lived centuries ago and those who are living now : peasants , the poor in spirit , and sages , who have thought and written about it , saying the same thing in their obscure words - we all agree on that one thing : what we should live for , and what is good .
Nothing of that which constitutes the chief joys of my life would have existed for me . ' And although he made the greatest efforts of imagination , he could not picture to himself the bestial creature he would have been , had he not known what he was living for .
And they could not believe it , because they could not imagine the whole volume of all they consumed , and therefore could not conceive that what they were destroying was the very thing they lived on .
' I have long been meaning to !
Leaving his tea and regretting the interruption in the interesting conversation , yet uneasy as to why he was sent for , as this only happened on important occasions ; Levin went to the nursery .
He had besides the things before mentioned , twelve marbles , part of a jews-harp , a piece of blue bottle-glass to look through , a spool cannon , a key that would n't unlock anything , a fragment of chalk , a glass stopper of a decanter , a tin soldier , a couple of tadpoles , six fire-crackers , a kitten with only one eye , a brass door-knob , a dog-collar -- but no dog -- the handle of a knife , four pieces of orange-peel , and a dilapidated old window sash .
Then the dead were counted , prisoners exchanged , the terms of the next disagreement agreed upon , and the day for the necessary battle appointed ; after which the armies fell into line and marched away , and Tom turned homeward alone .
When a Sunday-school superintendent makes his customary little speech , a hymn-book in the hand is as necessary as is the inevitable sheet of music in the hand of a singer who stands forward on the platform and sings a solo at a concert -- though why , is a mystery : for neither the hymn-book nor the sheet of music is ever referred to by the sufferer .
The middle-aged man turned out to be a prodigious personage -- no less a one than the county judge -- altogether the most august creation these children had ever looked upon -- and they wondered what kind of material he was made of -- and they half wanted to hear him roar , and were half afraid he might , too .
It was the most stunning surprise of the decade , and so profound was the sensation that it lifted the new hero up to the judicial one 's altitude , and the school had two marvels to gaze upon in place of one .
This was lucky ; he was about to begin to groan , as a `` starter , '' as he called it , when it occurred to him that if he came into court with that argument , his aunt would pull it out , and that would hurt .
`` Say -- what is dead cats good for , Huck ? ''
" Thomas Sawyer , this is the most astounding confession I have ever listened to . No mere ferule will answer for this offence .
`` Oh , Tom ! Then I ai n't the first you 've ever been engaged to ! ''
All the old graves were sunken in , there was not a tombstone on the place ; round-topped , worm-eaten boards staggered over the graves , leaning for support and finding none .
Joe , I never meant to -- ' pon my soul and honor , I never meant to , Joe .
THE two boys flew on and on , toward the village , speechless with horror .
I reckon there ai n't no mistake ' bout where _ I 'll _ go to .
He was now become , to them , the most balefully interesting object they had ever looked upon , and they could not take their fascinated eyes from his face .
`` Nothing . Nothing 't I know of . ''
The next instant he was out , and `` going on '' like an Indian ; yelling , laughing , chasing boys , jumping over the fence at risk of life and limb , throwing handsprings , standing on his head -- doing all the heroic things he could conceive of , and keeping a furtive eye out , all the while , to see if Becky Thatcher was noticing .
They made him understand that his poor rags would do to begin with , though it was customary for wealthy pirates to start with a proper wardrobe .
They found plenty of things to be delighted with , but nothing to be astonished at .
They caught fish , cooked supper and ate it , and then fell to guessing at what the village was thinking and saying about them ; and the pictures they drew of the public distress on their account were gratifying to look upon -- from their point of view .
Go ' long home and get laughed at .
When he got to where they were , he began unfolding his secret , and they listened moodily till at last they saw the `` point '' he was driving at , and then they set up a warwhoop of applause and said it was `` splendid ! '' and said if he had told them at first , they would n't have started away .
A sweep of chilly air passed by , rustling all the leaves and snowing the flaky ashes broadcast about the fire .
However , one by one they straggled in at last and took shelter under the tent , cold , scared , and streaming with water ; but to have company in misery seemed something to be grateful for .
It was a wild night for homeless young heads to be out in .
The boys went back to camp , a good deal awed ; but they found there was still something to be thankful for , because the great sycamore , the shelter of their beds , was a ruin , now , blasted by the lightnings , and they were not under it when the catastrophe happened .
They dried their boiled ham and had a feast , and after that they sat by the fire and expanded and glorified their midnight adventure until morning , for there was not a dry spot to sleep on , anywhere around .
Then there was a dispute about who saw the dead boys last in life , and many claimed that dismal distinction , and offered evidences , more or less tampered with by the witness ; and when it was ultimately decided who _ did _ see the departed last , and exchanged the last words with them , the lucky parties took upon themselves a sort of sacred importance , and were gaped at and envied by all the rest .
`` He said -- I _ think _ he said he hoped I was better off where I was gone to , but if I 'd been better sometimes -- ''
He called himself a fool , and all the hard names he could think of .
Tom hinted at things he had to attend to ; things that must be done ; and time was fleeting .
She thrust the volume into the desk , turned the key , and burst out crying with shame and vexation . `` Tom Sawyer , you are just as mean as you can be , to sneak up on a person and look at what they 're looking at . ''
A whole hour drifted by , the master sat nodding in his throne , the air was drowsy with the hum of study .
The mayor of the village , in delivering the prize to the author of it , made a warm speech in which he said that it was by far the most `` eloquent '' thing he had ever listened to , and that Daniel Webster himself might well be proud of it .
It may be remarked , in passing , that the number of compositions in which the word `` beauteous '' was over-fondled , and human experience referred to as `` life 's page , '' was up to the usual average .
`` Then how you going to know which one to go for ? ''
" Shucks , I only meant you 'd _ see _ ' em -- not hopping , of course -- what do they want to hop for ? -- but I mean you 'd just see ' em -- scattered around , you know , in a kind of a general way .
`` Why , so as to have something to live on , by and by . ''
When they reached the haunted house there was something so weird and grisly about the dead silence that reigned there under the baking sun , and something so depressing about the loneliness and desolation of the place , that they were afraid , for a moment , to venture in .
Here -- bear a hand and we 'll see what it 's here for .
" Huck , I did n't wait to look around .
All the different ways of getting hot and tired were gone through with , and by-and-by the rovers straggled back to camp fortified with responsible appetites , and then the destruction of the good things began .
They fired a shot apiece as they started , but their bullets whizzed by and did n't do us any harm .
" Do n't say a word about it , madam . There 's another that you 're more beholden to than you are to me and my boys , maybe , but he do n't allow me to tell his name .
Those fellows war n't likely to come again -- they had n't any tools left to work with , and what was the use of waking you up and scaring you to death ?
But what could she be crying about ?
The weary time dragged on ; they slept again , and awoke famished and woe-stricken .
Tom lifted up a glorious shout , and instantly that hand was followed by the body it belonged to -- Injun Joe 's !
Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which the great rock stood in .
What do you want to be afraid for ? "
`` Shucks ! what do you want to slope for ? ''
Wherever Tom and Huck appeared they were courted , admired , stared at .
" Huck , I would n't want to , and I _ do n't _ want to -- but what would people say ? Why , they 'd say , ' Mph !
*This* *precious* *vessel* *was* *now* *placed* *on* *my* *knee* *,* *and* *I* *was* *cordially* *invited* *to* *eat* *the* *circlet* *of* *delicate* *pastry* *upon* *it* *.* *Vain* *favour* *!* *coming* *,* *like* *most* *other* *favours* *long* *deferred* *and* *often* *wished* *for* *,* *too* *late* *!*
*``* *Do* *n't* *you* *think* *Gateshead* *Hall* *a* *very* *beautiful* *house* *?* *''* *asked* *he* *.* *``* *Are* *you* *not* *very* *thankful* *to* *have* *such* *a* *fine* *place* *to* *live* *at* *?* *''*
*"* *Is* *there* *anything* *else* *you* *wish* *for* *,* *Jane* *?*
*But* *you* *are* *rather* *put* *upon* *,* *that* *'s* *certain* *.*
*``* *Ay* *,* *ay* *!* *''* *was* *the* *answer* *:* *the* *door* *was* *slapped* *to* *,* *a* *voice* *exclaimed* *``* *All* *right* *,* *''* *and* *on* *we* *drove* *.*
*I* *devoured* *my* *bread* *and* *drank* *my* *coffee* *with* *relish* *;* *but* *I* *should* *have* *been* *glad* *of* *as* *much* *more* *--* *I* *was* *still* *hungry* *.*
*I* *generally* *contrived* *to* *reserve* *a* *moiety* *of* *this* *bounteous* *repast* *for* *myself* *;* *but* *the* *remainder* *I* *was* *invariably* *obliged* *to* *part* *with* *.*
*I* *wish* *the* *woollen* *stockings* *were* *better* *looked* *to* *!* *--* *when* *I* *was* *here* *last* *,* *I* *went* *into* *the* *kitchen-garden* *and* *examined* *the* *clothes* *drying* *on* *the* *line* *;* *there* *was* *a* *quantity* *of* *black* *hose* *in* *a* *very* *bad* *state* *of* *repair* *:* *from* *the* *size* *of* *the* *holes* *in* *them* *I* *was* *sure* *they* *had* *not* *been* *well* *mended* *from* *time* *to* *time* *.* *"*
*They* *conversed* *of* *things* *I* *had* *never* *heard* *of* *;* *of* *nations* *and* *times* *past* *;* *of* *countries* *far* *away* *;* *of* *secrets* *of* *nature* *discovered* *or* *guessed* *at* *:* *they* *spoke* *of* *books* *:* *how* *many* *they* *had* *read* *!*
*Mr.* *Brocklehurst* *and* *his* *family* *never* *came* *near* *Lowood* *now* *:* *household* *matters* *were* *not* *scrutinised* *into* *;* *the* *cross* *housekeeper* *was* *gone* *,* *driven* *away* *by* *the* *fear* *of* *infection* *;* *her* *successor* *,* *who* *had* *been* *matron* *at* *the* *Lowton* *Dispensary* *,* *unused* *to* *the* *ways* *of* *her* *new* *abode* *,* *provided* *with* *comparative* *liberality* *.*
*My* *favourite* *seat* *was* *a* *smooth* *and* *broad* *stone* *,* *rising* *white* *and* *dry* *from* *the* *very* *middle* *of* *the* *beck* *,* *and* *only* *to* *be* *got* *at* *by* *wading* *through* *the* *water* *;* *a* *feat* *I* *accomplished* *barefoot* *.*
*Mary* *Ann* *remarked* *that* *she* *supposed* *some* *one* *must* *be* *very* *ill* *,* *as* *Mr.* *Bates* *had* *been* *sent* *for* *at* *that* *time* *of* *the* *evening* *.*
*I* *saw* *the* *outline* *of* *a* *form* *under* *the* *clothes* *,* *but* *the* *face* *was* *hid* *by* *the* *hangings* *:* *the* *nurse* *I* *had* *spoken* *to* *in* *the* *garden* *sat* *in* *an* *easy-chair* *asleep* *;* *an* *unsnuffed* *candle* *burnt* *dimly* *on* *the* *table* *.*
*I* *was* *not* *reprimanded* *for* *leaving* *my* *bed* *;* *people* *had* *something* *else* *to* *think* *about* *;* *no* *explanation* *was* *afforded* *then* *to* *my* *many* *questions* *;* *but* *a* *day* *or* *two* *afterwards* *I* *learned* *that* *Miss* *Temple* *,* *on* *returning* *to* *her* *own* *room* *at* *dawn* *,* *had* *found* *me* *laid* *in* *the* *little* *crib* *;* *my* *face* *against* *Helen* *Burns* *'s* *shoulder* *,* *my* *arms* *round* *her* *neck* *.*
*The* *next* *day* *she* *laid* *the* *affair* *before* *Mr.* *Brocklehurst* *,* *who* *said* *that* *Mrs.* *Reed* *must* *be* *written* *to* *,* *as* *she* *was* *my* *natural* *guardian* *.*
*I* *had* *brushed* *my* *black* *stuff* *travelling-dress* *,* *prepared* *my* *bonnet* *,* *gloves* *,* *and* *muff* *;* *sought* *in* *all* *my* *drawers* *to* *see* *that* *no* *article* *was* *left* *behind* *;* *and* *now* *having* *nothing* *more* *to* *do* *,* *I* *sat* *down* *and* *tried* *to* *rest* *.*
*"* *Well* *,* *and* *how* *do* *they* *all* *get* *on* *?*
*Well* *,* *our* *ship* *stopped* *in* *the* *morning* *,* *before* *it* *was* *quite* *daylight* *,* *at* *a* *great* *city* *--* *a* *huge* *city* *,* *with* *very* *dark* *houses* *and* *all* *smoky* *;* *not* *at* *all* *like* *the* *pretty* *clean* *town* *I* *came* *from* *;* *and* *Mr.* *Rochester* *carried* *me* *in* *his* *arms* *over* *a* *plank* *to* *the* *land* *,* *and* *Sophie* *came* *after* *,* *and* *we* *all* *got* *into* *a* *coach* *,* *which* *took* *us* *to* *a* *beautiful* *large* *house* *,* *larger* *than* *this* *and* *finer* *,* *called* *an* *hotel* *.*
*``* *Adele* *,* *''* *I* *inquired* *,* *``* *with* *whom* *did* *you* *live* *when* *you* *were* *in* *that* *pretty* *clean* *town* *you* *spoke* *of* *?* *''*
*``* *None* *that* *I* *ever* *heard* *of* *,* *''* *returned* *Mrs.* *Fairfax* *,* *smiling* *.*
*Anybody* *may* *blame* *me* *who* *likes* *,* *when* *I* *add* *further* *,* *that* *,* *now* *and* *then* *,* *when* *I* *took* *a* *walk* *by* *myself* *in* *the* *grounds* *;* *when* *I* *went* *down* *to* *the* *gates* *and* *looked* *through* *them* *along* *the* *road* *;* *or* *when* *,* *while* *Adele* *played* *with* *her* *nurse* *,* *and* *Mrs.* *Fairfax* *made* *jellies* *in* *the* *storeroom* *,* *I* *climbed* *the* *three* *staircases* *,* *raised* *the* *trap-door* *of* *the* *attic* *,* *and* *having* *reached* *the* *leads* *,* *looked* *out* *afar* *over* *sequestered* *field* *and* *hill* *,* *and* *along* *dim* *sky-line* *--* *that* *then* *I* *longed* *for* *a* *power* *of* *vision* *which* *might* *overpass* *that* *limit* *;* *which* *might* *reach* *the* *busy* *world* *,* *towns* *,* *regions* *full* *of* *life* *I* *had* *heard* *of* *but* *never* *seen* *--* *that* *then* *I* *desired* *more* *of* *practical* *experience* *than* *I* *possessed* *;* *more* *of* *intercourse* *with* *my* *kind* , *of* *acquaintance* *with* *variety* *of* *character* *,* *than* *was* *here* *within* *my* *reach* *.*
*Women* *are* *supposed* *to* *be* *very* *calm* *generally* *:* *but* *women* *feel* *just* *as* *men* *feel* *;* *they* *need* *exercise* *for* *their* *faculties* *,* *and* *a* *field* *for* *their* *efforts* *,* *as* *much* *as* *their* *brothers* *do* *;* *they* *suffer* *from* *too* *rigid* *a* *restraint* *,* *too* *absolute* *a* *stagnation* *,* *precisely* *as* *men* *would* *suffer* *;* *and* *it* *is* *narrow-minded* *in* *their* *more* *privileged* *fellow-creatures* *to* *say* *that* *they* *ought* *to* *confine* *themselves* *to* *making* *puddings* *and* *knitting* *stockings* *,* *to* *playing* *on* *the* *piano* *and* *embroidering* *bags* *.*
*Having* *seen* *Adele* *comfortably* *seated* *in* *her* *little* *chair* *by* *Mrs.* *Fairfax* *'s* *parlour* *fireside* *,* *and* *given* *her* *her* *best* *wax* *doll* *(* *which* *I* *usually* *kept* *enveloped* *in* *silver* *paper* *in* *a* *drawer* *)* *to* *play* *with* *,* *and* *a* *story-book* *for* *change* *of* *amusement* *;* *and* *having* *replied* *to* *her* *``* *Revenez* *bientot* *,* *ma* *bonne* *amie* *,* *ma* *chere* *Mdlle* *.* *Jeannette* *,* *''* *with* *a* *kiss* *I* *set* *out* *.*
*The* *din* *was* *on* *the* *causeway* *:* *a* *horse* *was* *coming* *;* *the* *windings* *of* *the* *lane* *yet* *hid* *it* *,* *but* *it* *approached* *.* *I* *was* *just* *leaving* *the* *stile* *;* *yet* *,* *as* *the* *path* *was* *narrow* *,* *I* *sat* *still* *to* *let* *it* *go* *by* *.*
*``* *I* *should* *think* *you* *ought* *to* *be* *at* *home* *yourself* *,* *''* *said* *he* *,* *``* *if* *you* *have* *a* *home* *in* *this* *neighbourhood* *:* *where* *do* *you* *come* *from* *?* *''*
*I* *caressed* *him* *,* *and* *he* *wagged* *his* *great* *tail* *;* *but* *he* *looked* *an* *eerie* *creature* *to* *be* *alone* *with* *,* *and* *I* *could* *not* *tell* *whence* *he* *had* *come* *.*
*``* *And* *you* *came* *from* *--* *?* *''* *``* *From* *Lowood* *school* *,* *in* *--* *-shire* *.* *''*
*One* *gleam* *of* *light* *lifted* *into* *relief* *a* *half-submerged* *mast* *,* *on* *which* *sat* *a* *cormorant* *,* *dark* *and* *large* *,* *with* *wings* *flecked* *with* *foam* *;* *its* *beak* *held* *a* *gold* *bracelet* *set* *with* *gems* *,* *that* *I* *had* *touched* *with* *as* *brilliant* *tints* *as* *my* *palette* *could* *yield* *,* *and* *as* *glittering* *distinctness* *as* *my* *pencil* *could* *impart* *.*
*Adele* *,* *indeed* *,* *no* *sooner* *saw* *Mrs.* *Fairfax* *,* *than* *she* *summoned* *her* *to* *her* *sofa* *,* *and* *there* *quickly* *filled* *her* *lap* *with* *the* *porcelain* *,* *the* *ivory* *,* *the* *waxen* *contents* *of* *her* *``* *boite* *;* *''* *pouring* *out* *,* *meantime* *,* *explanations* *and* *raptures* *in* *such* *broken* *English* *as* *she* *was* *mistress* *of* *.*
*``* *I* *am* *sure* *,* *sir* *,* *I* *should* *never* *mistake* *informality* *for* *insolence* *:* *one* *I* *rather* *like* *,* *the* *other* *nothing* *free-born* *would* *submit* *to* *,* *even* *for* *a* *salary* *.* *''*
*My* *Spring* *is* *gone* *,* *however* *,* *but* *it* *has* *left* *me* *that* *French* *floweret* *on* *my* *hands* *,* *which* *,* *in* *some* *moods* *,* *I* *would* *fain* *be* *rid* *of* *.*
*She* *was* *returning* *:* *of* *course* *my* *heart* *thumped* *with* *impatience* *against* *the* *iron* *rails* *I* *leant* *upon* *.*
*It* *little* *mattered* *whether* *my* *curiosity* *irritated* *him* *;* *I* *knew* *the* *pleasure* *of* *vexing* *and* *soothing* *him* *by* *turns* *;* *it* *was* *one* *I* *chiefly* *delighted* *in* *,* *and* *a* *sure* *instinct* *always* *prevented* *me* *from* *going* *too* *far* *;* *beyond* *the* *verge* *of* *provocation* *I* *never* *ventured* *;* *on* *the* *extreme* *brink* *I* *liked* *well* *to* *try* *my* *skill* *.*
*It* *does* *good* *to* *no* *woman* *to* *be* *flattered* *by* *her* *superior* *,* *who* *can* *not* *possibly* *intend* *to* *marry* *her* *;* *and* *it* *is* *madness* *in* *all* *women* *to* *let* *a* *secret* *love* *kindle* *within* *them* *,* *which* *,* *if* *unreturned* *and* *unknown* *,* *must* *devour* *the* *life* *that* *feeds* *it* *;* *and* *,* *if* *discovered* *and* *responded* *to* *,* *must* *lead* *,* *_* *ignis-fatus* *_* *-like* *,* *into* *miry* *wilds* *whence* *there* *is* *no* *extrication* *.*
*``* *Yes* *,* *''* *said* *Leah* *;* *"* *I* *wish* *I* *had* *as* *good* *;* *not* *that* *mine* *are* *to* *complain* *of* *,* *--* *there* *'s* *no* *stinginess* *at* *Thornfield* *;* *but* *they* *'re* *not* *one* *fifth* *of* *the* *sum* *Mrs.* *Poole* *receives* *.*
*Adele* *now* *petitioned* *to* *go* *down* *;* *but* *I* *took* *her* *on* *my* *knee* *,* *and* *gave* *her* *to* *understand* *that* *she* *must* *not* *on* *any* *account* *think* *of* *venturing* *in* *sight* *of* *the* *ladies* *,* *either* *now* *or* *at* *any* *other* *time* *,* *unless* *expressly* *sent* *for* *:* *that* *Mr.* *Rochester* *would* *be* *very* *angry* *,* *&* *c* *.*
*"* *No* *,* *indeed* *,* *I* *do* *n't* *;* *Mr.* *Rochester* *has* *something* *else* *to* *think* *about* *.*
*The* *crimson* *curtain* *hung* *before* *the* *arch* *:* *slight* *as* *was* *the* *separation* *this* *drapery* *formed* *from* *the* *party* *in* *the* *adjoining* *saloon* *,* *they* *spoke* *in* *so* *low* *a* *key* *that* *nothing* *of* *their* *conversation* *could* *be* *distinguished* *beyond* *a* *soothing* *murmur* *.*
*Lady* *Lynn* *had* *remarked* *,* *``* *It* *is* *Mr.* *Rochester* *'s* *ward* *,* *I* *suppose* *--* *the* *little* *French* *girl* *he* *was* *speaking* *of* *.* *''*
*``* *No* *,* *never* *:* *we* *might* *do* *what* *we* *pleased* *;* *ransack* *her* *desk* *and* *her* *workbox* *,* *and* *turn* *her* *drawers* *inside* *out* *;* *and* *she* *was* *so* *good-natured* *,* *she* *would* *give* *us* *anything* *we* *asked* *for* *.* *''*
*It* *had* *formerly* *been* *my* *endeavour* *to* *study* *all* *sides* *of* *his* *character* *:* *to* *take* *the* *bad* *with* *the* *good* *;* *and* *from* *the* *just* *weighing* *of* *both* *,* *to* *form* *an* *equitable* *judgment* *.* *Now* *I* *saw* *no* *bad* *.*
*They* *affirmed* *that* *she* *had* *even* *divined* *their* *thoughts* *,* *and* *had* *whispered* *in* *the* *ear* *of* *each* *the* *name* *of* *the* *person* *she* *liked* *best* *in* *the* *world* *,* *and* *informed* *them* *of* *what* *they* *most* *wished* *for* *.*
*"* *I* *do* *;* *especially* *when* *I* *'ve* *customers* *like* *you* *to* *deal* *with* *.*
*``* *A* *mean* *nutriment* *for* *the* *spirit* *to* *exist* *on* *:* *and* *sitting* *in* *that* *window-* *seat* *(* *you* *see* *I* *know* *your* *habits* *)* *--* *''* *``* *You* *have* *learned* *them* *from* *the* *servants* *.* *''*
*Now* *,* *then* *,* *I* *must* *see* *you* *all* *back* *into* *your* *rooms* *;* *for* *,* *till* *the* *house* *is* *settled* *,* *she* *can* *not* *be* *looked* *after* *.*
*His* *guest* *had* *been* *outraged* *,* *his* *own* *life* *on* *a* *former* *occasion* *had* *been* *hideously* *plotted* *against* *;* *and* *both* *attempts* *he* *smothered* *in* *secrecy* *and* *sank* *in* *oblivion* *!*
*Old* *times* *crowded* *fast* *back* *on* *me* *as* *I* *watched* *her* *bustling* *about* *--* *setting* *out* *the* *tea-tray* *with* *her* *best* *china* *,* *cutting* *bread* *and* *butter* *,* *toasting* *a* *tea-cake* *,* *and* *,* *between* *whiles* *,* *giving* *little* *Robert* *or* *Jane* *an* *occasional* *tap* *or* *push* *,* *just* *as* *she* *used* *to* *give* *me* *in* *former* *days* *.*
*The* *fact* *was* *,* *I* *had* *other* *things* *to* *think* *about* *;* *within* *the* *last* *few* *months* *feelings* *had* *been* *stirred* *in* *me* *so* *much* *more* *potent* *than* *any* *they* *could* *raise* *--* *pains* *and* *pleasures* *so* *much* *more* *acute* *and* *exquisite* *had* *been* *excited* *than* *any* *it* *was* *in* *their* *power* *to* *inflict* *or* *bestow* *--* *that* *their* *airs* *gave* *me* *no* *concern* *either* *for* *good* *or* *bad* *.*
*He* *did* *not* *leave* *the* *stile* *,* *and* *I* *hardly* *liked* *to* *ask* *to* *go* *by* *.*
*The* *vehemence* *of* *emotion* *,* *stirred* *by* *grief* *and* *love* *within* *me* *,* *was* *claiming* *mastery* *,* *and* *struggling* *for* *full* *sway* *,* *and* *asserting* *a* *right* *to* *predominate* *,* *to* *overcome* *,* *to* *live* *,* *rise* *,* *and* *reign* *at* *last* *:* *yes* *,* *--* *and* *to* *speak* *.*
*``* *You* *play* *a* *farce* *,* *which* *I* *merely* *laugh* *at* *.* *''*
*I* *do* *n't* *like* *to* *hear* *them* *spoken* *of* *.*
*Adele* *,* *when* *lifted* *in* *,* *commenced* *kissing* *me* *,* *by* *way* *of* *expressing* *her* *gratitude* *for* *my* *intercession* *:* *she* *was* *instantly* *stowed* *away* *into* *a* *corner* *on* *the* *other* *side* *of* *him* *.*
*I* *hated* *the* *business* *,* *I* *begged* *leave* *to* *defer* *it* *:* *no* *--* *it* *should* *be* *gone* *through* *with* *now* *.*
*``* *I* *have* *formed* *no* *supposition* *on* *the* *subject* *,* *sir* *;* *but* *I* *want* *to* *go* *on* *as* *usual* *for* *another* *month* *.* *''*
*"* *Oh* *,* *all* *he* *longed* *,* *all* *he* *prayed* *for* *,* *was* *that* *I* *might* *live* *with* *him* *!*
*In* *other* *people* *'s* *presence* *I* *was* *,* *as* *formerly* *,* *deferential* *and* *quiet* *;* *any* *other* *line* *of* *conduct* *being* *uncalled* *for* *:* *it* *was* *only* *in* *the* *evening* *conferences* *I* *thus* *thwarted* *and* *afflicted* *him* *.*
*The* *wind* *fell* *,* *for* *a* *second* *,* *round* *Thornfield* *;* *but* *far* *away* *over* *wood* *and* *water* *,* *poured* *a* *wild* *,* *melancholy* *wail* *:* *it* *was* *sad* *to* *listen* *to* *,* *and* *I* *ran* *off* *again* *.*
*There* *were* *no* *groomsmen* *,* *no* *bridesmaids* *,* *no* *relatives* *to* *wait* *for* *or* *marshal* *:* *none* *but* *Mr.* *Rochester* *and* *I.* *Mrs.* *Fairfax* *stood* *in* *the* *hall* *as* *we* *passed* *.* *I* *would* *fain* *have* *spoken* *to* *her* *,* *but* *my* *hand* *was* *held* *by* *a* *grasp* *of* *iron* *:* *I* *was* *hurried* *along* *by* *a* *stride* *I* *could* *hardly* *follow* *;* *and* *to* *look* *at* *Mr.* *Rochester* *'s* *face* *was* *to* *feel* *that* *not* *a* *second* *of* *delay* *would* *be* *tolerated* *for* *any* *purpose* *.*
*The* *service* *began* *.* *The* *explanation* *of* *the* *intent* *of* *matrimony* *was* *gone* *through* *;* *and* *then* *the* *clergyman* *came* *a* *step* *further* *forward* *,* *and* *,* *bending* *slightly* *towards* *Mr.* *Rochester* *,* *went* *on* *.*
*``* *The* *marriage* *can* *not* *go* *on* *:* *I* *declare* *the* *existence* *of* *an* *impediment* *.* *''*
*Have* *we* *anything* *else* *to* *stay* *for* *?* *"* *he* *inquired* *of* *Mr.* *Mason* *.*
*I* *have* *a* *place* *to* *repair* *to* *,* *which* *will* *be* *a* *secure* *sanctuary* *from* *hateful* *reminiscences* *,* *from* *unwelcome* *intrusion* *--* *even* *from* *falsehood* *and* *slander* *.* *"*
*Preconceived* *opinions* *,* *foregone* *determinations* *,* *are* *all* *I* *have* *at* *this* *hour* *to* *stand* *by* *:* *there* *I* *plant* *my* *foot* *.* *"* *I* *did* *.*
*I* *was* *transported* *in* *thought* *to* *the* *scenes* *of* *childhood* *:* *I* *dreamt* *I* *lay* *in* *the* *red-room* *at* *Gateshead* *;* *that* *the* *night* *was* *dark* *,* *and* *my* *mind* *impressed* *with* *strange* *fears* *.*
*The* *last* *was* *an* *awful* *blank* *:* *something* *like* *the* *world* *when* *the* *deluge* *was* *gone* *by* *.*
*Oh* *,* *intolerable* *questions* *,* *when* *I* *could* *do* *nothing* *and* *go* *nowhere* *!* *--* *when* *a* *long* *way* *must* *yet* *be* *measured* *by* *my* *weary* *,* *trembling* *limbs* *before* *I* *could* *reach* *human* *habitation* *--* *when* *cold* *charity* *must* *be* *entreated* *before* *I* *could* *get* *a* *lodging* *:* *reluctant* *sympathy* *importuned* *,* *almost* *certain* *repulse* *incurred* *,* *before* *my* *tale* *could* *be* *listened* *to* *,* *or* *one* *of* *my* *wants* *relieved* *!*
*The* *burden* *must* *be* *carried* *;* *the* *want* *provided* *for* *;* *the* *suffering* *endured* *;* *the* *responsibility* *fulfilled* *.*
*A* *neighbour* *or* *two* *came* *in* *;* *my* *chair* *was* *evidently* *wanted* *.* *I* *took* *leave* *.*
*Some* *say* *there* *is* *enjoyment* *in* *looking* *back* *to* *painful* *experience* *past* *;* *but* *at* *this* *day* *I* *can* *scarcely* *bear* *to* *review* *the* *times* *to* *which* *I* *allude* *:* *the* *moral* *degradation* *,* *blent* *with* *the* *physical* *suffering* *,* *form* *too* *distressing* *a* *recollection* *ever* *to* *be* *willingly* *dwelt* *on* *.*
*I* *could* *not* *hope* *to* *get* *a* *lodging* *under* *a* *roof* *,* *and* *sought* *it* *in* *the* *wood* *I* *have* *before* *alluded* *to* *.* *But* *my* *night* *was* *wretched* *,* *my* *rest* *broken* *:* *the* *ground* *was* *damp* *,* *the* *air* *cold* *:* *besides* *,* *intruders* *passed* *near* *me* *more* *than* *once* *,* *and* *I* *had* *again* *and* *again* *to* *change* *my* *quarters* *;* *no* *sense* *of* *safety* *or* *tranquillity* *befriended* *me* *.*
*``* *Varry* *like* *:* *but* *give* *ower* *studying* *;* *ye* *'ve* *done* *enough* *for* *to-night* *.* *''*
*He* *had* *been* *a* *bit* *ailing* *like* *the* *day* *before* *,* *but* *naught* *to* *signify* *;* *and* *when* *Mr.* *St.* *John* *asked* *if* *he* *would* *like* *either* *o* *'* *ye* *to* *be* *sent* *for* *,* *he* *fair* *laughed* *at* *him* *.*
*I* *waited* *a* *few* *moments* *,* *expecting* *he* *would* *go* *on* *with* *the* *subject* *first* *broached* *:* *but* *he* *seemed* *to* *have* *entered* *another* *train* *of* *reflection* *:* *his* *look* *denoted* *abstraction* *from* *me* *and* *my* *business* *.*
*My* *father* *,* *indeed* *,* *imposed* *the* *determination* *,* *but* *since* *his* *death* *,* *I* *have* *not* *a* *legitimate* *obstacle* *to* *contend* *with* *;* *some* *affairs* *settled* *,* *a* *successor* *for* *Morton* *provided* *,* *an* *entanglement* *or* *two* *of* *the* *feelings* *broken* *through* *or* *cut* *asunder* *--* *a* *last* *conflict* *with* *human* *weakness* *,* *in* *which* *I* *know* *I* *shall* *overcome* *,* *because* *I* *have* *vowed* *that* *I* *_* *will* *_* *overcome* *--* *and* *I* *leave* *Europe* *for* *the* *East* *.* *"*
*It* *is* *what* *I* *have* *to* *look* *forward* *to* *,* *and* *to* *live* *for* *.* *"*
*Nothing* *of* *course* *to* *speak* *of* *--* *twenty* *thousand* *pounds* *,* *I* *think* *they* *say* *--* *but* *what* *is* *that* *?* *"*
*It* *seemed* *I* *had* *found* *a* *brother* *:* *one* *I* *could* *be* *proud* *of* *,* *--* *one* *I* *could* *love* *;* *and* *two* *sisters* *,* *whose* *qualities* *were* *such* *,* *that* *,* *when* *I* *knew* *them* *but* *as* *mere* *strangers* *,* *they* *had* *inspired* *me* *with* *genuine* *affection* *and* *admiration* *.*
*I* *saw* *he* *was* *of* *the* *material* *from* *which* *nature* *hews* *her* *heroes* *--* *Christian* *and* *Pagan* *--* *her* *lawgivers* *,* *her* *statesmen* *,* *her* *conquerors* *:* *a* *steadfast* *bulwark* *for* *great* *interests* *to* *rest* *upon* *;* *but* *,* *at* *the* *fireside* *,* *too* *often* *a* *cold* *cumbrous* *column* *,* *gloomy* *and* *out* *of* *place* *.*
*He* *gave* *each* *one* *quiet* *kiss* *,* *said* *in* *a* *low* *tone* *a* *few* *words* *of* *welcome* *,* *stood* *a* *while* *to* *be* *talked* *to* *,* *and* *then* *,* *intimating* *that* *he* *supposed* *they* *would* *soon* *rejoin* *him* *in* *the* *parlour* *,* *withdrew* *there* *as* *to* *a* *place* *of* *refuge* *.*
*They* *could* *always* *talk* *;* *and* *their* *discourse* *,* *witty* *,* *pithy* *,* *original* *,* *had* *such* *charms* *for* *me* *,* *that* *I* *preferred* *listening* *to* *,* *and* *sharing* *in* *it* *,* *to* *doing* *anything* *else* *.*
*He* *did* *not* *abstain* *from* *conversing* *with* *me* *:* *he* *even* *called* *me* *as* *usual* *each* *morning* *to* *join* *him* *at* *his* *desk* *;* *and* *I* *fear* *the* *corrupt* *man* *within* *him* *had* *a* *pleasure* *unimparted* *to* *,* *and* *unshared* *by* *,* *the* *pure* *Christian* *,* *in* *evincing* *with* *what* *skill* *he* *could* *,* *while* *acting* *and* *speaking* *apparently* *just* *as* *usual* *,* *extract* *from* *every* *deed* *and* *every* *phrase* *the* *spirit* *of* *interest* *and* *approval* *which* *had* *formerly* *communicated* *a* *certain* *austere* *charm* *to* *his* *language* *and* *manner* *.*
*Winter* *snows* *,* *I* *thought* *,* *had* *drifted* *through* *that* *void* *arch* *,* *winter* *rains* *beaten* *in* *at* *those* *hollow* *casements* *;* *for* *,* *amidst* *the* *drenched* *piles* *of* *rubbish* *,* *spring* *had* *cherished* *vegetation* *:* *grass* *and* *weed* *grew* *here* *and* *there* *between* *the* *stones* *and* *fallen* *rafters* *.*
*Mr.* *Rochester* *now* *tried* *to* *walk* *about* *:* *vainly* *,* *--* *all* *was* *too* *uncertain* *.*
*``* *Is* *that* *what* *he* *rang* *for* *?* *''* *I* *asked* *.*
*His* *old* *dog* *,* *Pilot* *,* *lay* *on* *one* *side* *,* *removed* *out* *of* *the* *way* *,* *and* *coiled* *up* *as* *if* *afraid* *of* *being* *inadvertently* *trodden* *upon* *.*
*He* *sat* *in* *his* *chair* *--* *still* *,* *but* *not* *at* *rest* *:* *expectant* *evidently* *;* *the* *lines* *of* *now* *habitual* *sadness* *marking* *his* *strong* *features* *.*
*``* *The* *case* *being* *so* *,* *we* *have* *nothing* *in* *the* *world* *to* *wait* *for* *:* *we* *must* *be* *married* *instantly* *.* *''*
*First* *,* *she* *tried* *to* *look* *down* *and* *make* *out* *what* *she* *was* *coming* *to* *,* *but* *it* *was* *too* *dark* *to* *see* *anything* *;* *then* *she* *looked* *at* *the* *sides* *of* *the* *well* *,* *and* *noticed* *that* *they* *were* *filled* *with* *cupboards* *and* *book-shelves* *;* *here* *and* *there* *she* *saw* *maps* *and* *pictures* *hung* *upon* *pegs* *.*
*Poor* *Alice* *!* *It* *was* *as* *much* *as* *she* *could* *do* *,* *lying* *down* *on* *one* *side* *,* *to* *look* *through* *into* *the* *garden* *with* *one* *eye* *;* *but* *to* *get* *through* *was* *more* *hopeless* *than* *ever* *:* *she* *sat* *down* *and* *began* *to* *cry* *again* *.*
*'* *I* *'m* *sure* *those* *are* *not* *the* *right* *words* *,* *'* *said* *poor* *Alice* *,* *and* *her* *eyes* *filled* *with* *tears* *again* *as* *she* *went* *on* *,* *'* *I* *must* *be* *Mabel* *after* *all* *,* *and* *I* *shall* *have* *to* *go* *and* *live* *in* *that* *poky* *little* *house* *,* *and* *have* *next* *to* *no* *toys* *to* *play* *with* *,* *and* *oh* *!* *ever* *so* *many* *lessons* *to* *learn* *!*
*'* *You* *are* *not* *attending* *!* *'* *said* *the* *Mouse* *to* *Alice* *severely* *.* *'* *What* *are* *you* *thinking* *of* *?* *'*
*If* *they* *had* *any* *sense* *,* *they* *'d* *take* *the* *roof* *off* *.* *'* *After* *a* *minute* *or* *two* *,* *they* *began* *moving* *about* *again* *,* *and* *Alice* *heard* *the* *Rabbit* *say* *,* *'* *A* *barrowful* *will* *do* *,* *to* *begin* *with* *.* *'*
*'* *I* *'m* *afraid* *I* *ca* *n't* *put* *it* *more* *clearly* *,* *'* *Alice* *replied* *very* *politely* *,* *'* *for* *I* *ca* *n't* *understand* *it* *myself* *to* *begin* *with* *;* *and* *being* *so* *many* *different* *sizes* *in* *a* *day* *is* *very* *confusing* *.* *'*
*'* *That* *depends* *a* *good* *deal* *on* *where* *you* *want* *to* *get* *to* *,* *'* *said* *the* *Cat* *.*
*'* *To* *begin* *with* *,* *'* *said* *the* *Cat* *,* *'* *a* *dog* *'s* *not* *mad* *.*
*However* *,* *he* *consented* *to* *go* *on* *.* *'* *And* *so* *these* *three* *little* *sisters* *--* *they* *were* *learning* *to* *draw* *,* *you* *know* *--* *'*
*She* *was* *looking* *about* *for* *some* *way* *of* *escape* *,* *and* *wondering* *whether* *she* *could* *get* *away* *without* *being* *seen* *,* *when* *she* *noticed* *a* *curious* *appearance* *in* *the* *air* *:* *it* *puzzled* *her* *very* *much* *at* *first* *,* *but* *,* *after* *watching* *it* *a* *minute* *or* *two* *,* *she* *made* *it* *out* *to* *be* *a* *grin* *,* *and* *she* *said* *to* *herself* *'* *It* *'s* *the* *Cheshire* *Cat* *:* *now* *I* *shall* *have* *somebody* *to* *talk* *to* *.* *'*
*'* *How* *are* *you* *getting* *on* *?* *'* *said* *the* *Cat* *,* *as* *soon* *as* *there* *was* *mouth* *enough* *for* *it* *to* *speak* *with* *.*
*The* *moment* *Alice* *appeared* *,* *she* *was* *appealed* *to* *by* *all* *three* *to* *settle* *the* *question* *,* *and* *they* *repeated* *their* *arguments* *to* *her* *,* *though* *,* *as* *they* *all* *spoke* *at* *once* *,* *she* *found* *it* *very* *hard* *indeed* *to* *make* *out* *exactly* *what* *they* *said* *.*
*'* *It* *'s* *the* *thing* *Mock* *Turtle* *Soup* *is* *made* *from* *,* *'* *said* *the* *Queen* *.*
*'* *Reeling* *and* *Writhing* *,* *of* *course* *,* *to* *begin* *with* *,* *'* *the* *Mock* *Turtle* *replied* *;* *'* *and* *then* *the* *different* *branches* *of* *Arithmetic* *--* *Ambition* *,* *Distraction* *,* *Uglification* *,* *and* *Derision* *.* *'*
*'* *Why* *,* *what* *are* *your* *shoes* *done* *with* *?* *'* *said* *the* *Gryphon* *.* *'* *I* *mean* *,* *what* *makes* *them* *so* *shiny* *?* *'*
*He* *came* *in* *with* *a* *teacup* *in* *one* *hand* *and* *a* *piece* *of* *bread-and-butter* *in* *the* *other* *.* *'* *I* *beg* *pardon* *,* *your* *Majesty* *,* *'* *he* *began* *,* *'* *for* *bringing* *these* *in* *:* *but* *I* *had* *n't* *quite* *finished* *my* *tea* *when* *I* *was* *sent* *for* *.* *'*
*'* *Wake* *up* *,* *Alice* *dear* *!* *'* *said* *her* *sister* *;* *'* *Why* *,* *what* *a* *long* *sleep* *you* *'ve* *had* *!* *'* *'* *Oh* *,* *I* *'ve* *had* *such* *a* *curious* *dream* *!* *'* *said* *Alice* *,* *and* *she* *told* *her* *sister* *,* *as* *well* *as* *she* *could* *remember* *them* *,* *all* *these* *strange* *Adventures* *of* *hers* *that* *you* *have* *just* *been* *reading* *about* *;* *and* *when* *she* *had* *finished* *,* *her* *sister* *kissed* *her* *,* *and* *said* *,*
*The* *long* *grass* *rustled* *at* *her* *feet* *as* *the* *White* *Rabbit* *hurried* *by* *--* *the* *frightened* *Mouse* *splashed* *his* *way* *through* *the* *neighbouring* *pool* *--* *she* *could* *hear* *the* *rattle* *of* *the* *teacups* *as* *the* *March* *Hare* *and* *his* *friends* *shared* *their* *never-ending* *meal* *,* *and* *the* *shrill* *voice* *of* *the* *Queen* *ordering* *off* *her* *unfortunate* *guests* *to* *execution* *--* *once* *more* *the* *pig-baby* *was* *sneezing* *on* *the* *Duchess* *'s* *knee* *,* *while* *plates* *and* *dishes* *crashed* *around* *it* *--* *once* *more* *the* *shriek* *of* *the* *Gryphon* *,* *the* *squeaking* *of* *the* *Lizard* *'s* *slate-pencil* *,* *and* *the* *choking* *of* *the* *suppressed* *guinea-pigs* *,* *filled* *the* *air* *,* *mixed* *up* *with* *the* *distant* *sobs* *of* *the* *miserable* *Mock* *Turtle* *.*
*``* *What* *are* *you* *looking* *for* *?* *''* *asked* *the* *master* *.*
*That* *was* *what* *he* *cared* *about* *;* *he* *wanted* *town* *misses* *.* *"* *And* *she* *went* *on* *-*
*The* *matter* *had* *to* *be* *gone* *into* *.* *The* *house* *at* *Dieppe* *was* *found* *to* *be* *eaten* *up* *with* *mortgages* *to* *its* *foundations* *;* *what* *she* *had* *placed* *with* *the* *notary* *God* *only* *knew* *,* *and* *her* *share* *in* *the* *boat* *did* *not* *exceed* *one* *thousand* *crowns* *.*
*He* *could* *now* *change* *his* *meal-times* *,* *go* *in* *or* *out* *without* *explanation* *,* *and* *when* *he* *was* *very* *tired* *stretch* *himself* *at* *full* *length* *on* *his* *bed* *.*
*All* *the* *relatives* *of* *both* *families* *had* *been* *invited* *,* *quarrels* *between* *friends* *arranged* *,* *acquaintances* *long* *since* *lost* *sight* *of* *written* *to* *.*
*To* *begin* *with* *,* *at* *its* *base* *there* *was* *a* *square* *of* *blue* *cardboard* *,* *representing* *a* *temple* *with* *porticoes* *,* *colonnades* *,* *and* *stucco* *statuettes* *all* *round* *,* *and* *in* *the* *niches* *constellations* *of* *gilt* *paper* *stars* *;* *then* *on* *the* *second* *stage* *was* *a* *dungeon* *of* *Savoy* *cake* *,* *surrounded* *by* *many* *fortifications* *in* *candied* *angelica* *,* *almonds* *,* *raisins* *,* *and* *quarters* *of* *oranges* *;* *and* *finally* *,* *on* *the* *upper* *platform* *a* *green* *field* *with* *rocks* *set* *in* *lakes* *of* *jam* *,* *nutshell* *boats* *,* *and* *a* *small* *Cupid* *balancing* *himself* *in* *a* *chocolate* *swing* *whose* *two* *uprights* *ended* *in* *real* *roses* *for* *balls* *at* *the* *top* *.*
*By* *moonlight* *in* *the* *garden* *she* *recited* *all* *the* *passionate* *rhymes* *she* *knew* *by* *heart* *,* *and* *,* *sighing* *,* *sang* *to* *him* *many* *melancholy* *adagios* *;* *but* *she* *found* *herself* *as* *calm* *after* *as* *before* *,* *and* *Charles* *seemed* *no* *more* *amorous* *and* *no* *more* *moved* *.*
*On* *Wednesday* *at* *three* *o* *'clock* *,* *Monsieur* *and* *Madame* *Bovary* *,* *seated* *in* *their* *dog-cart* *,* *set* *out* *for* *Vaubyessard* *,* *with* *a* *great* *trunk* *strapped* *on* *behind* *and* *a* *bonnet-box* *in* *front* *of* *the* *apron* *.*
*She* *had* *bought* *herself* *a* *blotting* *book* *,* *writing* *case* *,* *pen-holder* *,* *and* *envelopes* *,* *although* *she* *had* *no* *one* *to* *write* *to* *;* *she* *dusted* *her* *what-not* *,* *looked* *at* *herself* *in* *the* *glass* *,* *picked* *up* *a* *book* *,* *and* *then* *,* *dreaming* *between* *the* *lines* *,* *let* *it* *drop* *on* *her* *knees* *.*
*They* *were* *airs* *played* *in* *other* *places* *at* *the* *theatres* *,* *sung* *in* *drawing* *rooms* *,* *danced* *to* *at* *night* *under* *lighted* *lustres* *,* *echoes* *of* *the* *world* *that* *reached* *even* *to* *Emma* *.*
*Before* *us* *,* *on* *the* *verge* *of* *the* *horizon* *,* *lie* *the* *oaks* *of* *the* *forest* *of* *Argueil* *,* *with* *the* *steeps* *of* *the* *Saint-Jean* *hills* *scarred* *from* *top* *to* *bottom* *with* *red* *irregular* *lines* *;* *they* *are* *rain* *tracks* *,* *and* *these* *brick-tones* *standing* *out* *in* *narrow* *streaks* *against* *the* *grey* *colour* *of* *the* *mountain* *are* *due* *to* *the* *quantity* *of* *iron* *springs* *that* *flow* *beyond* *in* *the* *neighboring* *country* *.*
*Moreover* *,* *she* *had* *the* *boarders* *'* *meal* *to* *see* *to* *,* *and* *that* *of* *the* *doctor* *,* *his* *wife* *,* *and* *their* *servant* *;* *the* *billiard-room* *was* *echoing* *with* *bursts* *of* *laughter* *;* *three* *millers* *in* *a* *small* *parlour* *were* *calling* *for* *brandy* *;* *the* *wood* *was* *blazing* *,* *the* *brazen* *pan* *was* *hissing* *,* *and* *on* *the* *long* *kitchen* *table* *,* *amid* *the* *quarters* *of* *raw* *mutton* *,* *rose* *piles* *of* *plates* *that* *rattled* *with* *the* *shaking* *of* *the* *block* *on* *which* *spinach* *was* *being* *chopped* *.*
*They* *had* *whistled* *for* *him* *a* *quarter* *of* *an* *hour* *;* *Hivert* *had* *even* *gone* *back* *a* *mile* *and* *a* *half* *expecting* *every* *moment* *to* *catch* *sight* *of* *her* *;* *but* *it* *had* *been* *necessary* *to* *go* *on* *.*
*One* *,* *he* *said* *had* *been* *told* *of* *,* *who* *had* *come* *back* *to* *Paris* *from* *Constantinople* *.*
*``* *One* *thinks* *of* *nothing* *,* *''* *he* *continued* *;* *"* *the* *hours* *slip* *by* *.*
*``* *Have* *you* *any* *business* *to* *attend* *to* *?* *''* *she* *asked* *.*
*Ah* *!* *yes* *!* *Have* *I* *not* *my* *house* *to* *look* *after* *,* *my* *husband* *to* *attend* *to* *,* *a* *thousand* *things* *,* *in* *fact* *,* *many* *duties* *that* *must* *be* *considered* *first* *?* *"*
*What* *help* *is* *to* *be* *hoped* *for* *,* *what* *consolation* *,* *what* *solace* *?* *"*
*The* *wish* *took* *possession* *of* *her* *to* *run* *after* *and* *rejoin* *him* *,* *throw* *herself* *into* *his* *arms* *and* *say* *to* *him* *,* *``* *It* *is* *I* *;* *I* *am* *yours* *.* *''*
*Where* *the* *devil* *does* *she* *come* *from* *?*
*Drowsy* *pigs* *were* *burrowing* *in* *the* *earth* *with* *their* *snouts* *,* *calves* *were* *bleating* *,* *lambs* *baaing* *;* *the* *cows* *,* *on* *knees* *folded* *in* *,* *were* *stretching* *their* *bellies* *on* *the* *grass* *,* *slowly* *chewing* *the* *cud* *,* *and* *blinking* *their* *heavy* *eyelids* *at* *the* *gnats* *that* *buzzed* *round* *them* *.*
*One* *saw* *folk* *leaning* *on* *their* *elbows* *at* *all* *the* *windows* *,* *others* *standing* *at* *doors* *,* *and* *Justin* *,* *in* *front* *of* *the* *chemist* *'s* *shop* *,* *seemed* *quite* *transfixed* *by* *the* *sight* *of* *what* *he* *was* *looking* *at* *.*
*``* *For* *,* *''* *said* *he* *to* *Emma* *,* *``* *what* *risk* *is* *there* *?* *See* *-* *''* *(* *and* *he* *enumerated* *on* *his* *fingers* *the* *advantages* *of* *the* *attempt* *)* *,* *``* *success* *,* *almost* *certain* *relief* *and* *beautifying* *of* *the* *patient* *,* *celebrity* *acquired* *by* *the* *operator* *.* *Why* *,* *for* *example* *,* *should* *not* *your* *husband* *relieve* *poor* *Hippolyte* *of* *the* *'* *Lion* *d* *'Or* *'* *?* *Note* *that* *he* *would* *not* *fail* *to* *tell* *about* *his* *cure* *to* *all* *the* *travellers* *,* *and* *then* *''* *(* *Homais* *lowered* *his* *voice* *and* *looked* *round* *him* *)* *``* *who* *is* *to* *prevent* *me* *from* *sending* *a* *short* *paragraph* *on* *the* *subject* *to* *the* *paper* *?* *Eh* *!* *goodness* *me* *!* *an* *article* *gets* *about* *;* *it* *is* *talked* *of* *;* *it* *ends* *by* *making* *a* *snowball* *!* *And* *who* *knows* *?* *who* *knows* *?* *''*
*How* *was* *it* *that* *she* *-* *she* *,* *who* *was* *so* *intelligent* *-* *could* *have* *allowed* *herself* *to* *be* *deceived* *again* *?* *and* *through* *what* *deplorable* *madness* *had* *she* *thus* *ruined* *her* *life* *by* *continual* *sacrifices* *?* *She* *recalled* *all* *her* *instincts* *of* *luxury* *,* *all* *the* *privations* *of* *her* *soul* *,* *the* *sordidness* *of* *marriage* *,* *of* *the* *household* *,* *her* *dream* *sinking* *into* *the* *mire* *like* *wounded* *swallows* *;* *all* *that* *she* *had* *longed* *for* *,* *all* *that* *she* *had* *denied* *herself* *,* *all* *that* *she* *might* *have* *had* *!* *And* *for* *what* *?* *for* *what* *?*
*Emma* *pounced* *upon* *and* *opened* *it* *.*
*It* *would* *all* *have* *to* *be* *begun* *over* *again* *later* *on* *.*
*Then* *she* *tried* *to* *calm* *herself* *;* *she* *recalled* *the* *letter* *;* *she* *must* *finish* *it* *;* *she* *did* *not* *dare* *to* *.* *And* *where* *?*
*Thus* *you* *are* *not* *ignorant* *of* *the* *singularly* *aphrodisiac* *effect* *produced* *by* *the* *Nepeta* *cataria* *,* *vulgarly* *called* *catmint* *,* *on* *the* *feline* *race* *;* *and* *,* *on* *the* *other* *hand* *,* *to* *quote* *an* *example* *whose* *authenticity* *I* *can* *answer* *for* *.*
*Then* *,* *do* *n't* *you* *think* *that* *perhaps* *her* *imagination* *should* *be* *worked* *upon* *?* *"*
*To* *begin* *with* *,* *he* *did* *not* *know* *how* *he* *could* *pay* *Monsieur* *Homais* *for* *all* *the* *physic* *supplied* *by* *him* *,* *and* *though* *,* *as* *a* *medical* *man* *,* *he* *was* *not* *obliged* *to* *pay* *for* *it* *,* *he* *nevertheless* *blushed* *a* *little* *at* *such* *an* *obligation* *.*
*Bills* *rained* *in* *upon* *the* *house* *;* *the* *tradesmen* *grumbled* *;* *Monsieur* *Lheureux* *especially* *harassed* *him* *.*
*Felicite* *forgot* *;* *he* *had* *other* *things* *to* *attend* *to* *;* *then* *thought* *no* *more* *about* *them* *.*
*This* *searching* *after* *faith* *,* *she* *thought* *,* *was* *only* *one* *merit* *the* *more* *,* *and* *in* *the* *pride* *of* *her* *devoutness* *Emma* *compared* *herself* *to* *those* *grand* *ladies* *of* *long* *ago* *whose* *glory* *she* *,* *had* *dreamed* *of* *over* *a* *portrait* *of* *La* *Valliere* *,* *and* *who* *,* *trailing* *with* *so* *much* *majesty* *the* *lace-trimmed* *trains* *of* *their* *long* *gowns* *,* *retired* *into* *solitudes* *to* *shed* *at* *the* *feet* *of* *Christ* *all* *the* *tears* *of* *hearts* *that* *life* *had* *wounded* *.*
*But* *they* *die* *at* *the* *hospital* *,* *because* *they* *have* *n't* *the* *sense* *when* *young* *to* *lay* *by* *.*
*Emma* *answered* *that* *she* *thought* *she* *could* *do* *without* *.* *The* *shopkeeper* *was* *not* *to* *be* *beaten* *.*
*Charles* *naively* *asked* *her* *where* *this* *paper* *came* *from* *.*
*Then* *he* *drew* *from* *his* *pocket* *a* *list* *of* *goods* *not* *paid* *for* *;* *to* *wit* *,* *the* *curtains* *,* *the* *carpet* *,* *the* *material* *for* *the* *armchairs* *,* *several* *dresses* *,* *and* *divers* *articles* *of* *dress* *,* *the* *bills* *for* *which* *amounted* *to* *about* *two* *thousand* *francs* *.*
*I* *need* *looking* *after* *.*
*Often* *she* *even* *received* *summonses* *,* *stamped* *paper* *that* *she* *barely* *looked* *at* *.* *She* *would* *have* *liked* *not* *to* *be* *alive* *,* *or* *to* *be* *always* *asleep* *.*
*She* *could* *not* *go* *on* *;* *and* *yet* *she* *must* *.*
*``* *Ah* *!* *''* *thought* *Rodolphe* *,* *turning* *very* *pale* *,* *``* *that* *was* *what* *she* *came* *for* *.* *''* *At* *last* *he* *said* *with* *a* *calm* *air* *-*
*To* *begin* *with* *,* *it* *enfranchised* *the* *slaves* *,* *introduced* *into* *the* *world* *a* *morality* *-* *"*
*And* *as* *she* *did* *not* *dare* *to* *,* *he* *himself* *stepped* *forward* *,* *scissors* *in* *hand* *.*
*Here* *the* *young* *gossips* *,* *growing* *warm* *at* *the* *memory* *of* *the* *entrance* *of* *monsieur* *the* *legate* *,* *both* *began* *to* *talk* *at* *once* *.*
*So* *the* *personages* *on* *the* *stage* *took* *up* *their* *parts* *,* *and* *Gringoire* *hoped* *that* *the* *rest* *of* *his* *work* *,* *at* *least* *,* *would* *be* *listened* *to* *.*
*``* *He* *speaks* *when* *he* *chooses* *,* *''* *said* *the* *old* *woman* *;* *"* *he* *became* *deaf* *through* *ringing* *the* *bells* *.*
*After* *reflecting* *a* *moment* *,* *temporarily* *sheltered* *beneath* *the* *little* *wicket* *of* *the* *prison* *of* *the* *treasurer* *of* *the* *Sainte* *−* *Chappelle* *,* *as* *to* *the* *shelter* *which* *he* *would* *select* *for* *the* *night* *,* *having* *all* *the* *pavements* *of* *Paris* *to* *choose* *from* *,* *he* *remembered* *to* *have* *noticed* *the* *week* *previously* *in* *the* *Rue* *de* *la* *Savaterie* *,* *at* *the* *door* *of* *a* *councillor* *of* *the* *parliament* *,* *a* *stepping* *stone* *for* *mounting* *a* *mule* *,* *and* *to* *have* *said* *to* *himself* *that* *that* *stone* *would* *furnish* *,* *on* *occasion* *,* *a* *very* *excellent* *pillow* *for* *a* *mendicant* *or* *a* *poet* *.*
*You* *know* *no* *other* *daisies* *(* *~* *marguerites* *~* *)* *than* *those* *which* *your* *April* *greensward* *gives* *your* *cows* *to* *browse* *upon* *;* *while* *I* *,* *a* *poet* *,* *am* *hooted* *,* *and* *shiver* *,* *and* *owe* *twelve* *sous* *,* *and* *the* *soles* *of* *my* *shoes* *are* *so* *transparent* *,* *that* *they* *might* *serve* *as* *glasses* *for* *your* *lantern* *!*
*If* *you* *have* *any* *mummery* *to* *go* *through* *with* *,* *there* *'s* *a* *very* *good* *God* *the* *Father* *in* *that* *mortar* *yonder* *,* *in* *stone* *,* *which* *we* *stole* *from* *Saint* *−* *Pierre* *aux* *Boeufs* *.*
*``* *What* *the* *deuce* *is* *she* *thinking* *of* *?* *''* *thought* *Gringoire* *,* *staring* *at* *what* *she* *was* *gazing* *at* *;* *"* *it* *is* *impossible* *that* *it* *can* *be* *that* *stone* *dwarf* *carved* *in* *the* *keystone* *of* *that* *arch* *,* *which* *thus* *absorbs* *her* *attention* *.*
*At* *length* *the* *grand* *peal* *began* *;* *the* *whole* *tower* *trembled* *;* *woodwork* *,* *leads* *,* *cut* *stones* *,* *all* *groaned* *at* *once* *,* *from* *the* *piles* *of* *the* *foundation* *to* *the* *trefoils* *of* *its* *summit* *.*
*Here* *alone* *is* *the* *truth* *.* *``* *(* *As* *he* *spoke* *thus* *,* *he* *took* *from* *the* *top* *of* *the* *coffer* *a* *phial* *filled* *with* *the* *powder* *which* *we* *have* *mentioned* *above* *)* *,* *''* *here* *alone* *is* *light* *!*
*The* *judge* *supposed* *that* *it* *had* *been* *replied* *to* *,* *and* *continued* *,* *−* *−*
*There* *is* *something* *in* *their* *midst* *that* *they* *are* *looking* *at* *!* *"*
*She* *was* *alone* *,* *alone* *in* *this* *life* *,* *fingers* *were* *pointed* *at* *her* *,* *she* *was* *hooted* *at* *in* *the* *streets* *,* *beaten* *by* *the* *sergeants* *,* *jeered* *at* *by* *the* *little* *boys* *in* *rags* *.*
*Lying* *,* *in* *January* *,* *in* *that* *thin* *,* *linen* *sack* *,* *lying* *on* *a* *granite* *floor* *,* *without* *fire* *,* *in* *the* *gloom* *of* *a* *cell* *whose* *oblique* *air* *−* *hole* *allowed* *only* *the* *cold* *breeze* *,* *but* *never* *the* *sun* *,* *to* *enter* *from* *without* *,* *she* *did* *not* *appear* *to* *suffer* *or* *even* *to* *think* *.*
*Nevertheless* *,* *from* *her* *dull* *eyes* *there* *escaped* *a* *look* *,* *an* *ineffable* *look* *,* *a* *profound* *,* *lugubrious* *,* *imperturbable* *look* *,* *incessantly* *fixed* *upon* *a* *corner* *of* *the* *cell* *which* *could* *not* *be* *seen* *from* *without* *;* *a* *gaze* *which* *seemed* *to* *fix* *all* *the* *sombre* *thoughts* *of* *that* *soul* *in* *distress* *upon* *some* *mysterious* *object* *.*
*Her* *hands* *remained* *clasped* *;* *her* *lips* *mute* *;* *her* *eyes* *fixed* *;* *and* *that* *little* *shoe* *,* *thus* *gazed* *at* *,* *broke* *the* *heart* *of* *any* *one* *who* *knew* *her* *history* *.*
*Meanwhile* *,* *the* *young* *girl* *was* *waiting* *to* *be* *spoken* *to* *,* *in* *such* *emotion* *that* *she* *dared* *not* *raise* *her* *eyelids* *.*
*All* *Paris* *lay* *at* *his* *feet* *,* *with* *the* *thousand* *spires* *of* *its* *edifices* *and* *its* *circular* *horizon* *of* *gentle* *hills* *−* *−* *with* *its* *river* *winding* *under* *its* *bridges* *,* *and* *its* *people* *moving* *to* *and* *fro* *through* *its* *streets* *,* *−* *−* *with* *the* *clouds* *of* *its* *smoke* *,* *−* *−* *with* *the* *mountainous* *chain* *of* *its* *roofs* *which* *presses* *Notre* *−* *Dame* *in* *its* *doubled* *folds* *;* *but* *out* *.of* *all* *the* *city* *,* *the* *archdeacon* *gazed* *at* *one* *corner* *only* *of* *the* *pavement* *,* *the* *Place* *du* *Parvis* *;* *in* *all* *that* *throng* *at* *but* *one* *figure* *,* *−* *−* *the* *gypsy* *.*
*``* *What* *are* *you* *come* *for* *?* *''*
*``* *What* *are* *you* *driving* *at* *?* *''* *he* *said* *dryly* *.*
*What* *was* *I* *thinking* *of* *to* *thrust* *myself* *into* *that* *stone* *gimlet* *which* *pierces* *the* *sky* *;* *all* *for* *the* *sake* *of* *eating* *bearded* *cheese* *,* *and* *looking* *at* *the* *bell* *−* *towers* *of* *Paris* *through* *a* *hole* *in* *the* *wall* *!* *"*
*This* *was* *what* *he* *appeared* *to* *be* *waiting* *for* *.*
*More* *than* *once* *my* *flesh* *had* *been* *moved* *as* *a* *woman* *'s* *form* *passed* *by* *.*
*Fashionable* *society* *of* *that* *day* *hardly* *knew* *the* *name* *of* *the* *victim* *who* *passed* *by* *at* *the* *corner* *of* *the* *street* *,* *and* *it* *was* *the* *populace* *at* *the* *most* *who* *regaled* *themselves* *with* *this* *coarse* *fare* *.*
*Queue* *−* *en* *−* *Brie* *was* *a* *very* *insipid* *place* *to* *stay* *at* *then* *,* *a* *village* *of* *farriers* *,* *and* *cow* *−* *girls* *with* *chapped* *hands* *,* *a* *long* *line* *of* *poor* *dwellings* *and* *thatched* *cottages* *,* *which* *borders* *the* *grand* *road* *on* *both* *sides* *for* *half* *a* *league* *;* *a* *tail* *(* *queue* *)* *,* *in* *short* *,* *as* *its* *name* *imports* *.*
*The* *condemned* *girl* *remained* *motionless* *in* *her* *place* *,* *waiting* *to* *be* *disposed* *of* *.*
*When* *she* *had* *passed* *on* *,* *he* *began* *to* *descend* *the* *staircase* *again* *,* *with* *the* *slowness* *which* *he* *had* *observed* *in* *the* *spectre* *,* *believing* *himself* *to* *be* *a* *spectre* *too* *,* *haggard* *,* *with* *hair* *on* *end* *,* *his* *extinguished* *lamp* *still* *in* *his* *hand* *;* *and* *as* *he* *descended* *the* *spiral* *steps* *,* *he* *distinctly* *heard* *in* *his* *ear* *a* *voice* *laughing* *and* *repeating* *,* *−* *−*
*Quasimodo* *looked* *on* *from* *below* *at* *this* *scene* *which* *was* *all* *the* *more* *pleasing* *to* *witness* *because* *it* *was* *not* *meant* *to* *be* *seen* *.*
*``* *Executioner* *!* *''* *grumbled* *Louis* *XI* *.* *,* *``* *what* *are* *you* *driving* *at* *?* *''*
*In* *the* *first* *place* *,* *here* *is* *what* *has* *happened* *.* *−* *−* *All* *this* *will* *not* *be* *laughed* *at* *.*
*The* *unhappy* *Esmeralda* *dropped* *her* *head* *beneath* *her* *flowing* *hair* *,* *comprehending* *that* *it* *was* *no* *human* *being* *she* *had* *to* *deal* *with* *.*
*She* *set* *her* *daughter* *(* *down* *for* *she* *was* *still* *carrying* *her* *)* *,* *in* *one* *corner* *of* *the* *cell* *which* *was* *not* *visible* *from* *without* *.*
*Gudule* *'s* *horribly* *compressed* *heart* *now* *dilated* *,* *and* *she* *said* *in* *a* *low* *voice* *,* *as* *she* *cast* *a* *glance* *at* *her* *daughter* *,* *whom* *she* *had* *not* *ventured* *to* *look* *at* *while* *they* *were* *there* *,* *``* *Saved* *!* *''*
*Only* *at* *a* *distance* *,* *at* *the* *summit* *of* *that* *one* *of* *the* *towers* *of* *Notre* *−* *Dame* *which* *commands* *the* *Grève* *,* *two* *men* *outlined* *in* *black* *against* *the* *light* *morning* *sky* *,* *and* *who* *seemed* *to* *be* *looking* *on* *,* *were* *visible* *.*
*Quasimodo* *,* *advancing* *with* *the* *tread* *of* *a* *wolf* *behind* *him* *,* *went* *to* *see* *what* *he* *was* *gazing* *at* *thus* *.*
*But* *the* *priest* *was* *not* *listening* *to* *,* *was* *not* *looking* *at* *,* *anything* *of* *all* *this* *.*
*Thus* *he* *saw* *what* *the* *priest* *was* *looking* *at* *.*
*He* *was* *slim* *but* *firmly* *built* *,* *his* *clothes* *were* *black* *and* *close-fitting* *,* *with* *many* *folds* *and* *pockets* *,* *buckles* *and* *buttons* *and* *a* *belt* *,* *all* *of* *which* *gave* *the* *impression* *of* *being* *very* *practical* *but* *without* *making* *it* *very* *clear* *what* *they* *were* *actually* *for* *.*
*``* *Anna* *should* *have* *brought* *me* *my* *breakfast* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *He* *tried* *to* *work* *out* *who* *the* *man* *actually* *was* *,* *first* *in* *silence* *,* *just* *through* *observation* *and* *by* *thinking* *about* *it* *,* *but* *the* *man* *did* *n't* *stay* *still* *to* *be* *looked* *at* *for* *very* *long* *.*
*``* *I* *want* *neither* *to* *stay* *here* *nor* *to* *be* *spoken* *to* *by* *you* *until* *you* *'ve* *introduced* *yourself* *.* *''* *``* *I* *meant* *it* *for* *your* *own* *good* *,* *''* *said* *the* *stranger* *and* *opened* *the* *door* *,* *this* *time* *without* *being* *asked* *.*
*``* *She* *'s* *not* *allowed* *to* *,* *''* *said* *the* *big* *policeman* *.* *``* *You* *'re* *under* *arrest* *,* *are* *n't* *you* *.* *''*
*``* *And* *what* *do* *you* *want* *us* *to* *do* *about* *it* *?* *''* *replied* *the* *big* *policeman* *,* *loudly* *.* *"* *The* *way* *you* *'re* *carrying* *on* *,* *it* *'s* *worse* *than* *a* *child* *.*
*These* *gentlemen* *first* *accost* *me* *,* *and* *now* *they* *sit* *or* *stand* *about* *in* *here* *and* *let* *me* *be* *hauled* *up* *in* *front* *of* *you* *.*
*I* *expect* *you* *'ll* *want* *to* *go* *in* *to* *the* *bank* *now* *,* *wo* *n't* *you* *.* *"*
*He* *had* *no* *particular* *desire* *for* *her* *,* *he* *could* *not* *even* *remember* *what* *she* *looked* *like* *,* *but* *now* *he* *wanted* *to* *speak* *to* *her* *and* *it* *irritated* *him* *that* *her* *late* *arrival* *home* *meant* *this* *day* *would* *be* *full* *of* *unease* *and* *disorder* *right* *to* *its* *very* *end* *.*
*``* *Sit* *down* *,* *''* *she* *said* *,* *indicating* *the* *ottoman* *,* *while* *she* *herself* *remained* *standing* *by* *the* *bedpost* *despite* *the* *tiredness* *she* *had* *spoken* *of* *;* *she* *did* *not* *even* *take* *off* *her* *hat* *,* *which* *was* *small* *but* *decorated* *with* *an* *abundance* *of* *flowers* *.* *"* *What* *is* *it* *you* *wanted* *,* *then* *?*
*``* *What* *'s* *too* *vague* *?* *''* *asked* *K.* *Then* *he* *remembered* *himself* *and* *asked* *,* *``* *Would* *you* *like* *me* *to* *show* *you* *what* *it* *was* *like* *?* *''* *He* *wanted* *to* *move* *in* *some* *way* *but* *did* *not* *want* *to* *leave* *.*
*He* *had* *thought* *that* *he* *would* *recognise* *the* *building* *from* *a* *distance* *by* *some* *kind* *of* *sign* *,* *without* *knowing* *exactly* *what* *the* *sign* *would* *look* *like* *,* *or* *from* *some* *particular* *kind* *of* *activity* *outside* *the* *entrance* *.*
*It* *turned* *out* *,* *though* *,* *that* *that* *was* *mostly* *possible* *without* *further* *ado* *,* *as* *almost* *all* *the* *doors* *were* *left* *open* *and* *the* *children* *ran* *in* *and* *out* *.*
*``* *Yes* *,* *''* *said* *the* *woman* *,* *``* *please* *go* *on* *in* *.* *''*
*``* *Those* *are* *the* *official* *notes* *of* *the* *examining* *judge* *,* *''* *he* *said* *,* *and* *let* *the* *notebook* *fall* *down* *onto* *the* *desk* *.* *``* *You* *can* *read* *in* *your* *book* *as* *much* *as* *you* *like* *,* *sir* *,* *I* *really* *do* *n't* *have* *anything* *in* *this* *charge* *book* *to* *be* *afraid* *of* *,* *even* *though* *I* *do* *n't* *have* *access* *to* *it* *as* *I* *would* *n't* *want* *it* *in* *my* *hand* *,* *I* *can* *only* *touch* *it* *with* *two* *fingers* *.* *''*
*``* *I* *'m* *not* *trying* *to* *be* *a* *successful* *orator* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *after* *this* *thought* *,* *"* *that* *'s* *probably* *more* *than* *I* *'m* *capable* *of* *anyway* *.*
*``* *I* *merely* *wanted* *to* *draw* *your* *attention* *,* *''* *said* *the* *judge* *,* *``* *to* *something* *you* *seem* *not* *yet* *to* *be* *aware* *of* *:* *today* *,* *you* *have* *robbed* *yourself* *of* *the* *advantages* *that* *a* *hearing* *of* *this* *sort* *always* *gives* *to* *someone* *who* *is* *under* *arrest* *.* *''*
*Carry* *on* *with* *these* *people* *in* *the* *same* *way* *as* *you* *have* *been* *,* *as* *it* *does* *seem* *to* *me* *to* *be* *something* *you* *can* *not* *do* *without* *.*
*But* *even* *that* *is* *nothing* *for* *you* *to* *worry* *about* *when* *you* *consider* *that* *there* *'s* *nothing* *hanging* *on* *the* *outcome* *of* *this* *trial* *,* *and* *that* *,* *whatever* *the* *verdict* *,* *I* *will* *just* *laugh* *at* *it* *.*
*Yesterday* *,* *he* *sent* *that* *student* *to* *me* *,* *the* *one* *he* *really* *trusts* *and* *who* *he* *works* *with* *,* *he* *sent* *him* *with* *a* *present* *for* *me* *,* *silk* *stockings* *.* *He* *said* *it* *was* *because* *I* *clear* *up* *in* *the* *courtroom* *but* *that* *'s* *only* *a* *pretence* *,* *that* *job* *'s* *no* *more* *than* *what* *I* *'m* *supposed* *to* *do* *,* *it* *'s* *what* *my* *husband* *gets* *paid* *for* *.*
*It* *was* *of* *course* *nothing* *to* *worry* *about* *,* *he* *accepted* *the* *setback* *only* *because* *he* *was* *looking* *for* *a* *fight* *.*
*So* *off* *I* *go* *running* *as* *fast* *as* *I* *can* *,* *shout* *the* *message* *through* *the* *crack* *in* *the* *door* *of* *the* *office* *I* *'ve* *been* *sent* *to* *,* *so* *out* *of* *breath* *they* *'ll* *hardly* *be* *able* *to* *understand* *it* *,* *run* *back* *here* *again* *,* *but* *the* *student* *'s* *been* *even* *faster* *than* *I* *have* *-* *well* *he* *'s* *got* *less* *far* *to* *go* *,* *he* *'s* *only* *got* *to* *run* *down* *the* *steps* *.*
*Then* *the* *usher* *of* *the* *court* *stepped* *forward* *to* *him* *and* *,* *in* *order* *to* *calm* *him* *down* *and* *raise* *his* *spirits* *,* *said* *,* *"* *The* *gentleman* *here* *'s* *only* *asking* *what* *it* *is* *you* *'re* *waiting* *for* *.*
*In* *order* *to* *put* *an* *end* *to* *his* *discomfort* *,* *K.* *finally* *said* *,* *``* *Now* *that* *I* *'ve* *seen* *what* *it* *looks* *like* *here* *,* *I* *'d* *like* *to* *go* *.* *''*
*``* *It* *'s* *nothing* *for* *you* *to* *worry* *about* *,* *''* *she* *said* *,* *"* *that* *'s* *nothing* *unusual* *here* *,* *almost* *everyone* *gets* *an* *attack* *like* *that* *the* *first* *time* *they* *come* *here* *.*
*``* *There* *'s* *nothing* *there* *for* *you* *to* *worry* *about* *''* *said* *K.* *,* *crushing* *the* *remains* *of* *a* *sugar* *lump* *in* *his* *cup* *.*
*You* *know* *I* *'d* *do* *anything* *for* *you* *,* *to* *some* *extent* *I* *am* *still* *your* *guardian* *,* *and* *until* *today* *that* *'s* *something* *I* *was* *proud* *of* *.*
*The* *photograph* *was* *not* *one* *that* *had* *been* *taken* *while* *Elsa* *was* *posing* *for* *it* *,* *it* *showed* *her* *just* *after* *she* *had* *been* *in* *a* *wild* *dance* *such* *as* *she* *liked* *to* *do* *in* *wine* *bars* *,* *her* *skirt* *was* *still* *flung* *out* *as* *she* *span* *round* *,* *she* *had* *placed* *her* *hands* *on* *her* *firm* *hips* *and* *,* *with* *her* *neck* *held* *taut* *,* *looked* *to* *one* *side* *with* *a* *laugh* *;* *you* *could* *not* *see* *from* *the* *picture* *whom* *her* *laugh* *was* *intended* *for* *.*
*If* *anything* *about* *the* *individual* *charges* *and* *the* *reasons* *for* *them* *comes* *out* *clearly* *or* *can* *be* *guessed* *at* *while* *the* *accused* *is* *being* *questioned* *,* *then* *it* *'s* *possible* *to* *work* *out* *and* *submit* *documents* *that* *really* *direct* *the* *issue* *and* *present* *proof* *,* *but* *not* *before* *.*
*However* *,* *when* *this* *happens* *,* *you* *should* *never* *trust* *them* *too* *far* *,* *as* *however* *firmly* *they* *may* *have* *declared* *this* *new* *point* *of* *view* *in* *favour* *of* *the* *defendant* *they* *might* *well* *go* *straight* *back* *to* *their* *offices* *and* *write* *a* *report* *for* *the* *court* *that* *says* *just* *the* *opposite* *,* *and* *might* *well* *be* *even* *harder* *on* *the* *defendant* *than* *the* *original* *view* *,* *the* *one* *they* *insist* *they* *'ve* *been* *fully* *dissuaded* *from* *.*
*But* *even* *for* *the* *junior* *officials* *,* *the* *proceedings* *in* *the* *courtrooms* *are* *usually* *kept* *secret* *,* *so* *they* *are* *hardly* *able* *to* *see* *how* *the* *cases* *they* *work* *with* *proceed* *,* *court* *affairs* *appear* *in* *their* *range* *of* *vision* *often* *without* *their* *knowing* *where* *they* *come* *from* *and* *they* *move* *on* *further* *without* *their* *learning* *where* *they* *go* *.*
*Those* *who* *were* *at* *the* *bottom* *of* *the* *steps* *could* *not* *believe* *it* *at* *first* *,* *so* *they* *sent* *somebody* *out* *to* *go* *and* *look* *behind* *the* *door* *to* *see* *if* *there* *really* *was* *no-one* *there* *,* *and* *only* *then* *did* *they* *all* *gather* *together* *and* *probably* *did* *n't* *even* *dare* *to* *complain* *,* *as* *it* *'s* *far* *from* *being* *the* *lawyers* *'* *job* *to* *introduce* *any* *improvements* *in* *the* *court* *system* *,* *or* *even* *to* *want* *to* *.*
*You* *come* *home* *one* *day* *and* *find* *all* *the* *documents* *you* *'ve* *submitted* *,* *which* *you* *'ve* *worked* *hard* *to* *create* *and* *which* *you* *had* *the* *best* *hopes* *for* *,* *lying* *on* *the* *desk* *,* *they* *'ve* *been* *sent* *back* *as* *they* *ca* *n't* *be* *carried* *through* *to* *the* *next* *stage* *in* *the* *trial* *,* *they* *'re* *just* *worthless* *scraps* *of* *paper* *.*
*The* *first* *set* *of* *documents* *to* *be* *submitted* *were* *being* *worked* *on* *but* *still* *not* *ready* *,* *which* *usually* *turned* *out* *to* *be* *a* *great* *advantage* *the* *next* *time* *K.* *went* *to* *see* *him* *as* *the* *earlier* *occasion* *would* *have* *been* *a* *very* *bad* *time* *to* *put* *them* *in* *,* *which* *they* *could* *not* *then* *have* *known* *.*
*The* *lawyer* *had* *told* *him* *,* *as* *he* *talked* *to* *him* *,* *that* *that* *was* *something* *unheard* *of* *and* *would* *probably* *do* *him* *a* *great* *deal* *of* *harm* *,* *but* *K.* *could* *not* *tolerate* *any* *impediment* *to* *his* *efforts* *where* *his* *trial* *was* *concerned* *,* *and* *these* *impediments* *were* *probably* *caused* *by* *the* *lawyer* *himself* *.*
*Now* *,* *in* *contrast* *,* *if* *he* *was* *to* *conduct* *his* *defence* *himself* *,* *he* *would* *have* *to* *devote* *himself* *entirely* *to* *the* *court* *-* *for* *the* *time* *being* *,* *at* *least* *-* *success* *would* *mean* *,* *later* *on* *,* *his* *complete* *and* *conclusive* *liberation* *,* *but* *if* *he* *was* *to* *achieve* *this* *he* *would* *have* *to* *place* *himself* *,* *to* *start* *with* *,* *in* *far* *greater* *danger* *than* *he* *had* *been* *in* *so* *far* *.*
*So* *what* *could* *K.* *hope* *for* *?*
*But* *to* *K.* *,* *it* *once* *more* *seemed* *suspicious* *that* *the* *manufacturer* *did* *not* *want* *to* *show* *him* *the* *papers* *and* *saw* *nothing* *about* *his* *comments* *to* *laugh* *at* *.*
*But* *it* *was* *only* *the* *manufacturer* *'s* *comment* *that* *made* *K.* *realise* *what* *dangers* *that* *could* *lead* *to* *.*
*``* *What* *are* *you* *so* *surprised* *at* *?* *''* *he* *asked* *,* *surprised* *in* *his* *turn* *.* *"* *Those* *are* *court* *offices* *.*
*``* *I* *'d* *be* *glad* *to* *,* *''* *said* *the* *businessman* *.*
*``* *And* *what* *sort* *of* *progress* *had* *you* *been* *hoping* *for* *?* *''* *asked* *K.*
*He* *explained* *it* *all* *to* *me* *at* *length* *,* *but* *refused* *to* *do* *anything* *I* *asked* *for* *,* *no-one* *has* *any* *influence* *on* *the* *way* *the* *trial* *proceeds* *,* *he* *said* *,* *to* *try* *and* *insist* *on* *it* *in* *any* *of* *the* *documents* *submitted* *-* *like* *I* *was* *asking* *-* *was* *simply* *unheard* *of* *and* *would* *do* *harm* *to* *both* *him* *and* *me* *.*
*And* *before* *you* *say* *anything* *:* *none* *of* *them* *asked* *for* *a* *definite* *date* *for* *the* *main* *trial* *and* *none* *of* *them* *got* *one* *,* *and* *anyway* *,* *apart* *form* *one* *exception* *which* *I* *'ll* *talk* *about* *in* *a* *minute* *,* *it* *really* *is* *impossible* *,* *that* *'s* *one* *thing* *this* *lawyer* *did* *n't* *mislead* *me* *about* *;* *but* *besides* *,* *I* *had* *no* *reason* *to* *regret* *turning* *to* *other* *lawyers* *.*
*There* *'s* *nothing* *in* *that* *for* *me* *to* *be* *ashamed* *of* *.* *"*
*``* *Be* *glad* *to* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *,* *and* *did* *as* *the* *lawyer* *suggested* *;* *he* *was* *always* *ready* *to* *learn* *something* *new* *.*
*When* *the* *lawyer* *started* *speaking* *Block* *had* *stopped* *looking* *at* *the* *bed* *but* *stared* *rather* *into* *one* *of* *the* *corners* *,* *just* *listening* *,* *as* *if* *the* *light* *from* *the* *speaker* *were* *brighter* *than* *Block* *could* *bear* *to* *look* *at* *.*
*And* *I* *want* *to* *be* *spoken* *to* *as* *a* *gentleman* *,* *especially* *by* *you* *.*
*So* *these* *were* *the* *lawyer* *'s* *methods* *,* *which* *K.* *fortunately* *had* *not* *been* *exposed* *to* *for* *long* *,* *to* *let* *the* *client* *forget* *about* *the* *whole* *world* *and* *leave* *him* *with* *nothing* *but* *the* *hope* *of* *reaching* *the* *end* *of* *his* *trial* *by* *this* *deluded* *means* *.*
*K.* *went* *over* *to* *a* *nearby* *side* *chapel* *to* *see* *what* *they* *could* *have* *hoped* *for* *,* *he* *went* *up* *a* *few* *steps* *to* *a* *low* *marble* *railing* *and* *leant* *over* *it* *to* *look* *at* *the* *altar* *picture* *by* *the* *light* *of* *his* *torch* *.*
*``* *Then* *you* *are* *the* *one* *I* *am* *looking* *for* *,* *''* *said* *the* *priest* *.* *``* *I* *am* *the* *prison* *chaplain* *.* *''*
*They* *see* *his* *ideas* *of* *what* *'s* *inside* *the* *law* *as* *rather* *childish* *,* *and* *suppose* *he* *'s* *afraid* *himself* *of* *what* *he* *wants* *to* *make* *the* *man* *frightened* *of* *.*
*Also* *,* *although* *he* *'s* *in* *the* *service* *of* *the* *law* *he* *'s* *only* *there* *for* *this* *one* *entrance* *,* *therefore* *he* *'s* *there* *only* *in* *the* *service* *of* *this* *one* *man* *who* *the* *door* *'s* *intended* *for* *.*
*We* *can* *take* *it* *that* *he* *'s* *been* *performing* *this* *somewhat* *empty* *service* *for* *many* *years* *,* *through* *the* *whole* *of* *a* *man* *'s* *life* *,* *as* *it* *says* *that* *a* *man* *will* *come* *,* *that* *means* *someone* *old* *enough* *to* *be* *a* *man* *.* *That* *means* *the* *doorkeeper* *will* *have* *to* *wait* *a* *long* *time* *before* *his* *function* *is* *fulfilled* *,* *he* *will* *have* *to* *wait* *for* *as* *long* *as* *the* *man* *liked* *,* *who* *came* *to* *the* *door* *of* *his* *own* *free* *will* *.*
*At* *the* *end* *,* *speaking* *about* *the* *entrance* *he* *says* *,* *'* *Now* *I* *'ll* *go* *and* *close* *it* *'* *,* *although* *at* *the* *beginning* *of* *the* *story* *it* *says* *the* *door* *to* *the* *law* *is* *open* *as* *it* *always* *is* *,* *but* *if* *it* *'s* *always* *open* *-* *always* *-* *that* *means* *it* *'s* *open* *independently* *of* *the* *lifespan* *of* *the* *man* *it* *'s* *intended* *for* *,* *and* *not* *even* *the* *doorkeeper* *will* *be* *able* *to* *close* *it* *.*
*Despite* *all* *the* *effort* *they* *went* *to* *,* *and* *despite* *all* *the* *co-operation* *shown* *by* *K.* *,* *his* *demeanour* *seemed* *very* *forced* *and* *hard* *to* *believe* *.*
*He* *felt* *a* *slight* *itch* *up* *on* *his* *belly* *;* *pushed* *himself* *slowly* *up* *on* *his* *back* *towards* *the* *headboard* *so* *that* *he* *could* *lift* *his* *head* *better* *;* *found* *where* *the* *itch* *was* *,* *and* *saw* *that* *it* *was* *covered* *with* *lots* *of* *little* *white* *spots* *which* *he* *did* *n't* *know* *what* *to* *make* *of* *;* *and* *when* *he* *tried* *to* *feel* *the* *place* *with* *one* *of* *his* *legs* *he* *drew* *it* *quickly* *back* *because* *as* *soon* *as* *he* *touched* *it* *he* *was* *overcome* *by* *a* *cold* *shudder* *.*
*Despite* *all* *the* *difficulty* *he* *was* *in* *,* *he* *could* *not* *suppress* *a* *smile* *at* *this* *thought* *.*
*You* *barricade* *yourself* *in* *your* *room* *,* *give* *us* *no* *more* *than* *yes* *or* *no* *for* *an* *answer* *,* *you* *are* *causing* *serious* *and* *unnecessary* *concern* *to* *your* *parents* *and* *you* *fail* *-* *and* *I* *mention* *this* *just* *by* *the* *way* *-* *you* *fail* *to* *carry* *out* *your* *business* *duties* *in* *a* *way* *that* *is* *quite* *unheard* *of* *.*
*That* *was* *something* *his* *parents* *did* *not* *understand* *very* *well* *;* *over* *the* *years* *,* *they* *had* *become* *convinced* *that* *this* *job* *would* *provide* *for* *Gregor* *for* *his* *entire* *life* *,* *and* *besides* *,* *they* *had* *so* *much* *to* *worry* *about* *at* *present* *that* *they* *had* *lost* *sight* *of* *any* *thought* *for* *the* *future* *.*
*And* *without* *considering* *that* *he* *still* *was* *not* *familiar* *with* *how* *well* *he* *could* *move* *about* *in* *his* *present* *state* *,* *or* *that* *his* *speech* *still* *might* *not* *-* *or* *probably* *would* *not* *-* *be* *understood* *,* *he* *let* *go* *of* *the* *door* *;* *pushed* *himself* *through* *the* *opening* *;* *tried* *to* *reach* *the* *chief* *clerk* *on* *the* *landing* *who* *,* *ridiculously* *,* *was* *holding* *on* *to* *the* *banister* *with* *both* *hands* *;* *but* *Gregor* *fell* *immediately* *over* *and* *,* *with* *a* *little* *scream* *as* *he* *sought* *something* *to* *hold* *onto* *,* *landed* *on* *his* *numerous* *little* *legs* *.*
*That* *'s* *to* *say* *,* *it* *was* *money* *that* *should* *not* *really* *be* *touched* *but* *set* *aside* *for* *emergencies* *;* *money* *to* *live* *on* *had* *to* *be* *earned* *.*
*The* *uniform* *had* *not* *been* *new* *to* *start* *with* *,* *but* *as* *a* *result* *of* *this* *it* *slowly* *became* *even* *shabbier* *despite* *the* *efforts* *of* *Gregor* *'s* *mother* *and* *sister* *to* *look* *after* *it* *.* *Gregor* *would* *often* *spend* *the* *whole* *evening* *looking* *at* *all* *the* *stains* *on* *this* *coat* *,* *with* *its* *gold* *buttons* *always* *kept* *polished* *and* *shiny* *,* *while* *the* *old* *man* *in* *it* *would* *sleep* *,* *highly* *uncomfortable* *but* *peaceful* *.*
*The* *household* *budget* *became* *even* *smaller* *;* *so* *now* *the* *maid* *was* *dismissed* *;* *an* *enormous* *,* *thick-boned* *charwoman* *with* *white* *hair* *that* *flapped* *around* *her* *head* *came* *every* *morning* *and* *evening* *to* *do* *the* *heaviest* *work* *;* *everything* *else* *was* *looked* *after* *by* *Gregor* *'s* *mother* *on* *top* *of* *the* *large* *amount* *of* *sewing* *work* *she* *did* *.*
*Gregor* *even* *learned* *,* *listening* *to* *the* *evening* *conversation* *about* *what* *price* *they* *had* *hoped* *for* *,* *that* *several* *items* *of* *jewellery* *belonging* *to* *the* *family* *had* *been* *sold* *,* *even* *though* *both* *mother* *and* *sister* *had* *been* *very* *fond* *of* *wearing* *them* *at* *functions* *and* *celebrations* *.*
*He* *could* *see* *quite* *well* *,* *though* *,* *that* *there* *were* *more* *reasons* *than* *consideration* *for* *him* *that* *made* *it* *difficult* *for* *them* *to* *move* *,* *it* *would* *have* *been* *quite* *easy* *to* *transport* *him* *in* *any* *suitable* *crate* *with* *a* *few* *air* *holes* *in* *it* *;* *the* *main* *thing* *holding* *the* *family* *back* *from* *their* *decision* *to* *move* *was* *much* *more* *to* *do* *with* *their* *total* *despair* *,* *and* *the* *thought* *that* *they* *had* *been* *struck* *with* *a* *misfortune* *unlike* *anything* *experienced* *by* *anyone* *else* *they* *knew* *or* *were* *related* *to* *.*
*Other* *times* *he* *was* *not* *at* *all* *in* *the* *mood* *to* *look* *after* *his* *family* *,* *he* *was* *filled* *with* *simple* *rage* *about* *the* *lack* *of* *attention* *he* *was* *shown* *,* *and* *although* *he* *could* *think* *of* *nothing* *he* *would* *have* *wanted* *,* *he* *made* *plans* *of* *how* *he* *could* *get* *into* *the* *pantry* *where* *he* *could* *take* *all* *the* *things* *he* *was* *entitled* *to* *,* *even* *if* *he* *was* *not* *hungry* *.*
*Just* *by* *chance* *one* *day* *,* *rather* *than* *any* *real* *curiosity* *,* *she* *opened* *the* *door* *to* *Gregor* *'s* *room* *and* *found* *herself* *face* *to* *face* *with* *him* *.* *He* *was* *taken* *totally* *by* *surprise* *,* *no-one* *was* *chasing* *him* *but* *he* *began* *to* *rush* *to* *and* *fro* *while* *she* *just* *stood* *there* *in* *amazement* *with* *her* *hands* *crossed* *in* *front* *of* *her* *.*
*Gregor* *never* *responded* *to* *being* *spoken* *to* *in* *that* *way* *,* *but* *just* *remained* *where* *he* *was* *without* *moving* *as* *if* *the* *door* *had* *never* *even* *been* *opened* *.*
*The* *woman* *most* *likely* *meant* *to* *fetch* *the* *things* *back* *out* *again* *when* *she* *had* *time* *and* *the* *opportunity* *,* *or* *to* *throw* *everything* *out* *in* *one* *go* *,* *but* *what* *actually* *happened* *was* *that* *they* *were* *left* *where* *they* *landed* *when* *they* *had* *first* *been* *thrown* *unless* *Gregor* *made* *his* *way* *through* *the* *junk* *and* *moved* *it* *somewhere* *else* *.* *At* *first* *he* *moved* *it* *because* *,* *with* *no* *other* *room* *free* *where* *he* *could* *crawl* *about* *,* *he* *was* *forced* *to* *,* *but* *later* *on* *he* *came* *to* *enjoy* *it* *although* *moving* *about* *in* *that* *the* *way* *left* *him* *sad* *and* *tired* *to* *death* *and* *he* *would* *remain* *immobile* *for* *hours* *afterwards* *.*
*``* *Oh* *yes* *,* *we* *'d* *love* *to* *,* *''* *called* *back* *Gregor* *'s* *father* *as* *if* *he* *had* *been* *the* *violin* *player* *himself* *.*
*It* *seemed* *to* *him* *that* *he* *was* *being* *shown* *the* *way* *to* *the* *unknown* *nourishment* *he* *had* *been* *yearning* *for* *.*
*``* *Father* *,* *Mother* *,* *''* *said* *his* *sister* *,* *hitting* *the* *table* *with* *her* *hand* *as* *introduction* *,* *"* *we* *ca* *n't* *carry* *on* *like* *this* *.*
*The* *charwoman* *stood* *in* *the* *doorway* *with* *a* *smile* *on* *her* *face* *as* *if* *she* *had* *some* *tremendous* *good* *news* *to* *report* *,* *but* *would* *only* *do* *it* *if* *she* *was* *clearly* *asked* *to* *.*
*And* *whatever* *you* *may* *do* *or* *provide* *against* *,* *they* *never* *forget* *that* *name* *or* *their* *privileges* *unless* *they* *are* *disunited* *or* *dispersed* *,* *but* *at* *every* *chance* *they* *immediately* *rally* *to* *them* *,* *as* *Pisa* *after* *the* *hundred* *years* *she* *had* *been* *held* *in* *bondage* *by* *the* *Florentines* *.*
*But* *to* *come* *to* *those* *who* *,* *by* *their* *own* *ability* *and* *not* *through* *fortune* *,* *have* *risen* *to* *be* *princes* *,* *I* *say* *that* *Moses* *,* *Cyrus* *,* *Romulus* *,* *Theseus* *,* *and* *such* *like* *are* *the* *most* *excellent* *examples* *.*
*Therefore* *,* *a* *prince* *who* *has* *a* *strong* *city* *,* *and* *had* *not* *made* *himself* *odious* *,* *will* *not* *be* *attacked* *,* *or* *if* *any* *one* *should* *attack* *he* *will* *only* *be* *driven* *off* *with* *disgrace* *;* *again* *,* *because* *that* *the* *affairs* *of* *this* *world* *are* *so* *changeable* *,* *it* *is* *almost* *impossible* *to* *keep* *an* *army* *a* *whole* *year* *in* *the* *field* *without* *being* *interfered* *with* *.*
*Such* *things* *Julius* *not* *only* *followed* *,* *but* *improved* *upon* *,* *and* *he* *intended* *to* *gain* *Bologna* *,* *to* *ruin* *the* *Venetians* *,* *and* *to* *drive* *the* *French* *out* *of* *Italy* *.* *All* *of* *these* *enterprises* *prospered* *with* *him* *,* *and* *so* *much* *the* *more* *to* *his* *credit* *,* *inasmuch* *as* *he* *did* *everything* *to* *strengthen* *the* *Church* *and* *not* *any* *private* *person* *.*
*And* *if* *it* *be* *urged* *that* *whoever* *is* *armed* *will* *act* *in* *the* *same* *way* *,* *whether* *mercenary* *or* *not* *,* *I* *reply* *that* *when* *arms* *have* *to* *be* *resorted* *to* *,* *either* *by* *a* *prince* *or* *a* *republic* *,* *then* *the* *prince* *ought* *to* *go* *in* *person* *and* *perform* *the* *duty* *of* *a* *captain* *;* *the* *republic* *has* *to* *send* *its* *citizens* *,* *and* *when* *one* *is* *sent* *who* *does* *not* *turn* *out* *satisfactorily* *,* *it* *ought* *to* *recall* *him* *,* *and* *when* *one* *is* *worthy* *,* *to* *hold* *him* *by* *the* *laws* *so* *that* *he* *does* *not* *leave* *the* *command* *.*
*And* *the* *way* *to* *make* *ready* *one* *'s* *own* *forces* *will* *be* *easily* *found* *if* *the* *rules* *suggested* *by* *me* *shall* *be* *reflected* *upon* *,* *and* *if* *one* *will* *consider* *how* *Philip* *,* *the* *father* *of* *Alexander* *the* *Great* *,* *and* *many* *republics* *and* *princes* *have* *armed* *and* *organized* *themselves* *,* *to* *which* *rules* *I* *entirely* *commit* *myself* *.*
*And* *he* *would* *set* *forth* *to* *them* *,* *as* *he* *went* *,* *all* *the* *chances* *that* *could* *befall* *an* *army* *;* *he* *would* *listen* *to* *their* *opinion* *and* *state* *his* *,* *confirming* *it* *with* *reasons* *,* *so* *that* *by* *these* *continual* *discussions* *there* *could* *never* *arise* *,* *in* *time* *of* *war* *,* *any* *unexpected* *circumstances* *that* *he* *could* *not* *deal* *with* *.*
*Therefore* *,* *putting* *on* *one* *side* *imaginary* *things* *concerning* *a* *prince* *,* *and* *discussing* *those* *which* *are* *real* *,* *I* *say* *that* *all* *men* *when* *they* *are* *spoken* *of* *,* *and* *chiefly* *princes* *for* *being* *more* *highly* *placed* *,* *are* *remarkable* *for* *some* *of* *those* *qualities* *which* *bring* *them* *either* *blame* *or* *praise* *;* *and* *thus* *it* *is* *that* *one* *is* *reputed* *liberal* *,* *another* *miserly* *,* *using* *a* *Tuscan* *term* *(* *because* *an* *avaricious* *person* *in* *our* *language* *is* *still* *he* *who* *desires* *to* *possess* *by* *robbery* *,* *whilst* *we* *call* *one* *miserly* *who* *deprives* *himself* *too* *much* *of* *the* *use* *of* *his* *own* *)* *;* *one* *is* *reputed* *generous* *,* *one* *rapacious* *;* *one* *cruel* *,* *one* *compassionate* *;* *one* *faithless* *,* *another* *faithful* *;* *one* *effeminate* *and* *cowardly* *,* *another* *bold* *and* *brave* *;* *one* *affable* *,* *another* *haughty* *;* *one* *lascivious* *,* *another* *chaste* *;* *one* *sincere* *,* *another* *cunning* *;* *one* *hard* *,* *another* *easy* *;* *one* *grave* *,* *another* *frivolous* *;* *one* *religious* *,* *another* *unbelieving* *,* *and* *the* *like* *.*
*This* *will* *soon* *make* *him* *odious* *to* *his* *subjects* *,* *and* *becoming* *poor* *he* *will* *be* *little* *valued* *by* *any* *one* *;* *thus* *,* *with* *his* *liberality* *,* *having* *offended* *many* *and* *rewarded* *few* *,* *he* *is* *affected* *by* *the* *very* *first* *trouble* *and* *imperilled* *by* *whatever* *may* *be* *the* *first* *danger* *;* *recognizing* *this* *himself* *,* *and* *wishing* *to* *draw* *back* *from* *it* *,* *he* *runs* *at* *once* *into* *the* *reproach* *of* *being* *miserly* *.*
*It* *may* *be* *answered* *that* *one* *should* *wish* *to* *be* *both* *,* *but* *,* *because* *it* *is* *difficult* *to* *unite* *them* *in* *one* *person* *,* *it* *is* *much* *safer* *to* *be* *feared* *than* *loved* *,* *when* *,* *of* *the* *two* *,* *either* *must* *be* *dispensed* *with* *.*
*And* *that* *prince* *who* *,* *relying* *entirely* *on* *their* *promises* *,* *has* *neglected* *other* *precautions* *,* *is* *ruined* *;* *because* *friendships* *that* *are* *obtained* *by* *payments* *,* *and* *not* *by* *greatness* *or* *nobility* *of* *mind* *,* *may* *indeed* *be* *earned* *,* *but* *they* *are* *not* *secured* *,* *and* *in* *time* *of* *need* *can* *not* *be* *relied* *upon* *;* *and* *men* *have* *less* *scruple* *in* *offending* *one* *who* *is* *beloved* *than* *one* *who* *is* *feared* *,* *for* *love* *is* *preserved* *by* *the* *link* *of* *obligation* *which* *,* *owing* *to* *the* *baseness* *of* *men* *,* *is* *broken* *at* *every* *opportunity* *for* *their* *advantage* *;* *but* *fear* *preserves* *you* *by* *a* *dread* *of* *punishment* *which* *never* *fails* *.*
*For* *that* *reason* *,* *let* *a* *prince* *have* *the* *credit* *of* *conquering* *and* *holding* *his* *state* *,* *the* *means* *will* *always* *be* *considered* *honest* *,* *and* *he* *will* *be* *praised* *by* *everybody* *;* *because* *the* *vulgar* *are* *always* *taken* *by* *what* *a* *thing* *seems* *to* *be* *and* *by* *what* *comes* *of* *it* *;* *and* *in* *the* *world* *there* *are* *only* *the* *vulgar* *,* *for* *the* *few* *find* *a* *place* *there* *only* *when* *the* *many* *have* *no* *ground* *to* *rest* *on* *.*
*There* *is* *first* *to* *note* *that* *,* *whereas* *in* *other* *principalities* *the* *ambition* *of* *the* *nobles* *and* *the* *insolence* *of* *the* *people* *only* *have* *to* *be* *contended* *with* *,* *the* *Roman* *emperors* *had* *a* *third* *difficulty* *in* *having* *to* *put* *up* *with* *the* *cruelty* *and* *avarice* *of* *their* *soldiers* *,* *a* *matter* *so* *beset* *with* *difficulties* *that* *it* *was* *the* *ruin* *of* *many* *;* *for* *it* *was* *a* *hard* *thing* *to* *give* *satisfaction* *both* *to* *soldiers* *and* *people* *;* *because* *the* *people* *loved* *peace* *,* *and* *for* *this* *reason* *they* *loved* *the* *unaspiring* *prince* *,* *whilst* *the* *soldiers* *loved* *the* *warlike* *prince* *who* *was* *bold* *,* *cruel* *,* *and* *rapacious* *,* *which* *qualities* *they* *were* *quite* *willing* *he* *should* *exercise* *upon* *the* *people* *,* *so* *that* *they* *could* *get* *double* *pay* *and* *give* *vent* *to* *their* *own* *greed* *and* *cruelty* *.*
*Again* *,* *it* *much* *assists* *a* *prince* *to* *set* *unusual* *examples* *in* *internal* *affairs* *,* *similar* *to* *those* *which* *are* *related* *of* *Messer* *Bernabo* *da* *Milano* *,* *who* *,* *when* *he* *had* *the* *opportunity* *,* *by* *any* *one* *in* *civil* *life* *doing* *some* *extraordinary* *thing* *,* *either* *good* *or* *bad* *,* *would* *take* *some* *method* *of* *rewarding* *or* *punishing* *him* *,* *which* *would* *be* *much* *spoken* *about* *.*
*With* *these* *councillors* *,* *separately* *and* *collectively* *,* *he* *ought* *to* *carry* *himself* *in* *such* *a* *way* *that* *each* *of* *them* *should* *know* *that* *,* *the* *more* *freely* *he* *shall* *speak* *,* *the* *more* *he* *shall* *be* *preferred* *;* *outside* *of* *these* *,* *he* *should* *listen* *to* *no* *one* *,* *pursue* *the* *thing* *resolved* *on* *,* *and* *be* *steadfast* *in* *his* *resolutions* *.*
*The* *windows* *were* *long* *,* *narrow* *,* *and* *pointed* *,* *and* *at* *so* *vast* *a* *distance* *from* *the* *black* *oaken* *floor* *as* *to* *be* *altogether* *inaccessible* *from* *within* *.*
*But* *the* *fervid* *facility* *of* *his* *impromptus* *could* *not* *be* *so* *accounted* *for* *.*
*'* *How* *often* *must* *I* *tell* *you* *to* *let* *me* *know* *at* *once* *when* *anyone* *is* *here* *?* *'*
*Should* *not* *a* *new* *cook* *be* *sent* *for* *?* *'*
*Has* *the* *milk* *been* *sent* *for* *?* *'*
*He* *could* *not* *remember* *his* *mother* *,* *and* *his* *sister* *was* *much* *his* *senior* *,* *so* *that* *in* *the* *Shcherbatskys* *'* *house* *he* *saw* *for* *the* *first* *time* *the* *family* *life* *of* *a* *well-educated* *and* *honourable* *family* *of* *the* *old* *aristocracy* *-* *a* *life* *such* *as* *he* *had* *been* *deprived* *of* *by* *the* *death* *of* *his* *own* *father* *and* *mother* *.*
*Listening* *to* *his* *brother* *'s* *conversation* *with* *the* *professor* *,* *he* *noticed* *that* *they* *connected* *the* *scientific* *question* *with* *the* *spiritual* *and* *several* *times* *almost* *reached* *the* *latter* *,* *but* *every* *time* *they* *approached* *this* *,* *which* *seemed* *to* *him* *the* *most* *important* *question* *,* *they* *at* *once* *hurriedly* *retreated* *and* *again* *plunged* *into* *the* *domain* *of* *fine* *sub-divisions* *,* *reservations* *,* *quotations* *hints* *and* *references* *to* *authorities* *;* *and* *he* *found* *it* *difficult* *to* *understand* *what* *they* *were* *talking* *about* *.*
*Do* *you* *know* *?* *'* *Levin* *rose* *from* *his* *chair* *as* *if* *meaning* *to* *go* *at* *once* *.*
*'* *What* *,* *to* *begin* *with* *?*
*We* *try* *to* *get* *our* *hands* *into* *a* *state* *convenient* *to* *work* *with* *,* *and* *for* *that* *purpose* *we* *cut* *our* *nails* *and* *sometimes* *roll* *up* *our* *sleeves* *.*
*Afterwards* *at* *an* *appointed* *time* *and* *place* *the* *expected* *proposal* *was* *made* *to* *,* *and* *accepted* *by* *,* *her* *parents* *.*
*The* *Russian* *way* *,* *of* *employing* *a* *professional* *match-maker* *,* *was* *considered* *monstrous* *,* *and* *was* *laughed* *at* *by* *everybody* *,* *including* *the* *Princess* *herself* *.*
*Only* *now* *did* *she* *realize* *that* *this* *matter* *(* *with* *whom* *she* *would* *be* *happy* *,* *who* *was* *the* *man* *she* *loved* *)* *did* *not* *concern* *herself* *alone* *,* *but* *that* *in* *a* *moment* *she* *would* *have* *to* *wound* *a* *man* *she* *cared* *for* *,* *and* *to* *wound* *him* *cruelly* *...*
*She* *was* *right* *,* *because* *Levin* *really* *could* *not* *bear* *her* *and* *despised* *her* *for* *the* *very* *thing* *she* *was* *proud* *of* *and* *regarded* *as* *a* *merit* *,* *that* *is* *,* *her* *nervousness* *and* *refined* *contempt* *and* *disregard* *for* *all* *the* *rough* *and* *common* *things* *of* *life* *.*
*He* *passed* *in* *review* *the* *places* *he* *might* *go* *to* *.*
*In* *the* *depths* *of* *his* *heart* *he* *did* *not* *respect* *his* *mother* *and* *(* *though* *this* *he* *never* *acknowledged* *to* *himself* *)* *did* *not* *love* *her* *,* *but* *in* *accordance* *with* *the* *views* *of* *the* *set* *he* *lived* *in* *,* *and* *as* *a* *result* *of* *his* *education* *,* *he* *could* *not* *imagine* *himself* *treating* *her* *in* *any* *way* *but* *one* *altogether* *submissive* *and* *respectful* *;* *the* *more* *submissive* *and* *respectful* *he* *was* *externally* *,* *the* *less* *he* *honoured* *and* *loved* *her* *in* *his* *heart* *.*
*I* *have* *turned* *over* *in* *my* *mind* *everything* *I* *could* *think* *of* *,* *and* *can* *find* *nothing* *.* *'*
*So* *now* *you* *know* *whom* *you* *have* *to* *deal* *with* *,* *and* *if* *you* *fear* *you* *will* *be* *degraded* *-* *there* *is* *the* *door* *.* *'*
*The* *hero* *of* *the* *novel* *had* *nearly* *attained* *to* *his* *English* *happiness* *of* *a* *baronetcy* *and* *an* *estate* *,* *and* *Anna* *wanted* *to* *go* *to* *the* *estate* *with* *him* *,* *when* *she* *suddenly* *felt* *that* *he* *must* *have* *been* *ashamed* *,* *and* *that* *she* *was* *ashamed* *of* *the* *same* *thing* *,* *-* *but* *what* *was* *he* *ashamed* *of* *?*
*There* *was* *nothing* *to* *be* *ashamed* *of* *.*
*She* *recalled* *the* *ball* *and* *Vronsky* *and* *his* *humble* *,* *enamoured* *gaze* *,* *and* *their* *relations* *with* *one* *another* *;* *there* *was* *nothing* *to* *be* *ashamed* *of* *.*
*Listening* *to* *Petritsky* *'s* *familiar* *tales* *,* *in* *the* *familiar* *surroundings* *of* *the* *house* *he* *had* *lived* *in* *for* *three* *years* *,* *Vronsky* *experienced* *the* *satisfaction* *of* *returning* *to* *his* *customary* *careless* *Petersburg* *life* *.*
*'* *We* *can* *not* *,* *as* *you* *know* *,* *determine* *the* *beginning* *of* *a* *tuberculous* *process* *.* *As* *long* *as* *there* *are* *no* *cavities* *there* *is* *nothing* *definite* *to* *go* *by* *.*
*'* *There* *is* *nothing* *for* *me* *to* *grieve* *for* *or* *seek* *comfort* *about* *.*
*To* *their* *surprise* *the* *lovely* *one* *stops* *at* *the* *door* *of* *the* *very* *house* *they* *are* *going* *to* *.*
*Petritsky* *;* *whom* *Vronsky* *was* *fond* *of* *,* *was* *mixed* *up* *in* *the* *affair* *,* *and* *so* *was* *young* *Prince* *Kedrov* *,* *a* *first-rate* *fellow* *and* *a* *capital* *comrade* *,* *who* *had* *lately* *joined* *the* *regiment* *.*
*The* *conversation* *in* *both* *circles* *,* *as* *always* *happens* *at* *first* *,* *hesitated* *for* *a* *few* *minutes* *,* *was* *interrupted* *by* *greetings* *,* *recognitions* *,* *and* *offers* *of* *tea* *,* *and* *seemed* *to* *be* *seeking* *something* *to* *settle* *on* *.*
*This* *conversation* *did* *not* *flag* *,* *since* *it* *hinted* *at* *what* *could* *not* *be* *spoken* *of* *in* *this* *room* *,* *namely* *,* *at* *the* *relations* *existing* *between* *Tushkevich* *and* *their* *hostess* *.*
*'* *What* *you* *have* *just* *referred* *to* *was* *a* *mistake* *,* *and* *not* *love* *.* *'*
*'* *And* *what* *is* *most* *terrible* *of* *all* *,* *'* *thought* *he* *,* *'* *is* *that* *,* *just* *now* *,* *when* *my* *work* *is* *coming* *to* *completion* *'* *(* *he* *was* *thinking* *of* *the* *project* *he* *was* *then* *carrying* *through* *)* *,* *'* *when* *I* *need* *peace* *and* *all* *my* *powers* *of* *mind* *,* *just* *now* *this* *stupid* *anxiety* *falls* *on* *me* *.*
*But* *each* *time* *he* *began* *to* *speak* *with* *her* *he* *felt* *the* *same* *spirit* *of* *evil* *and* *falsehood* *which* *had* *taken* *possession* *of* *her* *master* *him* *also* *,* *and* *he* *neither* *said* *the* *things* *he* *meant* *to* *,* *nor* *spoke* *in* *the* *tone* *he* *had* *meant* *to* *adopt* *.*
*Besides* *this* *,* *it* *proved* *that* *the* *harrows* *and* *all* *the* *agricultural* *implements* *which* *he* *had* *ordered* *to* *be* *examined* *and* *mended* *in* *winter* *,* *for* *which* *purpose* *three* *carpenters* *had* *been* *specially* *engaged* *,* *had* *not* *been* *seen* *to* *,* *and* *that* *the* *harrows* *were* *now* *being* *mended* *when* *it* *was* *time* *to* *start* *harrowing* *.*
*You* *have* *got* *all* *you* *are* *fond* *of* *.*
*'* *I* *should* *not* *try* *to* *teach* *you* *the* *things* *you* *scribble* *about* *at* *your* *office* *,* *'* *he* *said* *,* *'* *but* *in* *case* *of* *need* *would* *come* *to* *you* *for* *advice* *about* *them* *,* *but* *you* *are* *firmly* *convinced* *that* *you* *understand* *all* *this* *forest* *lore* *.*
*'* *But* *whom* *are* *you* *driving* *at* *?*
*Levin* *'s* *vehemence* *sincerely* *pleased* *him* *.* *'* *Whom* *are* *you* *driving* *at* *?*
*But* *his* *friends* *understood* *at* *once* *that* *it* *was* *not* *only* *there* *that* *he* *was* *going* *.*
*It* *brought* *on* *with* *tenfold* *force* *an* *attack* *of* *that* *strange* *repulsion* *to* *-* *he* *knew* *not* *whom* *;* *but* *at* *the* *same* *time* *he* *felt* *that* *the* *crisis* *he* *had* *hoped* *for* *had* *now* *come* *,* *that* *concealment* *from* *the* *husband* *was* *no* *longer* *possible* *,* *and* *that* *somehow* *or* *other* *the* *unnatural* *situation* *must* *be* *quickly* *ended* *.*
*The* *country* *house* *the* *Karenins* *regularly* *occupied* *in* *summer* *was* *in* *Peterhof* *,* *and* *generally* *the* *Countess* *Lydia* *Ivanovna* *also* *lived* *near* *by* *and* *was* *in* *constant* *touch* *with* *Anna* *.*
*When* *after* *Makhotin* *and* *Vronsky* *had* *jumped* *the* *big* *barrier* *the* *officer* *following* *them* *fell* *on* *his* *head* *and* *swooned* *,* *a* *murmur* *of* *horror* *passed* *through* *the* *whole* *crowd* *;* *but* *Karenin* *saw* *that* *Anna* *did* *not* *even* *notice* *the* *fall* *and* *with* *difficulty* *understood* *what* *those* *around* *her* *were* *talking* *about* *.*
*'* *Fürst* *Shcherbatsky* *sammt* *Gemahlin* *und* *Tochter* *,* *'* *[* *Prince* *Shcherbatsky* *with* *his* *wife* *and* *daughter* *.* *]* *by* *the* *premises* *they* *occupied* *,* *by* *their* *name* *,* *and* *by* *the* *people* *they* *were* *acquainted* *with* *,* *at* *once* *crystallized* *into* *their* *definite* *and* *preordained* *place* *.*
*Having* *learnt* *all* *these* *particulars* *,* *the* *Princess* *saw* *nothing* *to* *object* *to* *in* *a* *friendship* *between* *her* *daughter* *and* *Varenka* *,* *especially* *as* *Varenka* *'s* *manners* *and* *education* *were* *excellent* *-* *she* *spoke* *French* *and* *English* *admirably* *,* *and* *,* *above* *all* *,* *she* *brought* *Madame* *Stahl* *'s* *regrets* *at* *having* *been* *deprived* *through* *illness* *of* *the* *pleasure* *of* *making* *the* *Princess* *'s* *acquaintance* *.*
*This* *was* *a* *lofty* *,* *mystical* *religion* *connected* *with* *a* *series* *of* *beautiful* *thoughts* *and* *feelings* *,* *which* *it* *was* *not* *only* *possible* *to* *believe* *because* *one* *was* *told* *to* *,* *but* *even* *to* *love* *.*
*QUITE* *TOWARD* *THE* *END* *OF* *THE* *SEASON* *Prince* *Shcherbatsky* *,* *who* *from* *Carlsbad* *had* *gone* *on* *to* *Baden* *and* *Kissingen* *to* *see* *some* *Russian* *friends* *and* *to* *'* *inhale* *some* *Russian* *spirit* *,* *'* *as* *he* *expressed* *it* *,* *returned* *to* *his* *family* *.*
*Now* *tell* *me* *what* *am* *I* *to* *be* *pleased* *about* *?*
*In* *the* *morning* *I* *have* *to* *get* *up* *and* *dress* *at* *once* *and* *go* *down* *to* *the* *dining-room* *to* *drink* *bad* *tea* *.*
*Words* *seemed* *to* *detract* *from* *the* *beauty* *of* *what* *he* *was* *looking* *at* *.*
*'* *What* *are* *they* *talking* *about* *,* *and* *why* *do* *n't* *they* *start* *another* *swath* *?* *'* *thought* *Levin* *.* *It* *did* *not* *occur* *to* *him* *that* *the* *peasants* *,* *who* *had* *been* *mowing* *unceasingly* *for* *four* *hours* *,* *wanted* *their* *breakfast* *.*
*And* *while* *doing* *this* *he* *noted* *everything* *he* *came* *to* *:* *now* *he* *plucked* *a* *sorrel* *stalk* *and* *ate* *it* *,* *or* *offered* *it* *to* *Levin* *;* *now* *he* *threw* *aside* *a* *branch* *with* *the* *point* *of* *his* *scythe* *,* *or* *examined* *a* *quail* *'s* *nest* *from* *which* *the* *hen* *bird* *had* *flown* *up* *,* *almost* *under* *the* *scythe* *;* *or* *he* *caught* *a* *beetle* *,* *lifting* *it* *with* *the* *scythe-point* *as* *with* *a* *fork* *,* *and* *after* *showing* *it* *to* *Levin* *,* *threw* *it* *away* *.*
*Besides* *this* *she* *liked* *the* *idea* *of* *going* *to* *her* *house* *in* *the* *country* *because* *she* *intended* *to* *get* *her* *sister* *Kitty* *,* *who* *was* *to* *return* *from* *abroad* *at* *midsummer* *and* *who* *had* *been* *ordered* *bathing* *,* *to* *join* *her* *there* *.*
*There* *was* *nowhere* *to* *hang* *dresses* *,* *because* *what* *few* *wardrobes* *there* *were* *would* *not* *shut* *,* *or* *else* *opened* *of* *themselves* *when* *anyone* *passed* *by* *.*
*Often* *when* *watching* *her* *children* *she* *made* *great* *efforts* *to* *convince* *herself* *that* *she* *was* *mistaken* *,* *that* *being* *their* *mother* *she* *was* *not* *impartial* *;* *and* *yet* *she* *could* *not* *help* *telling* *herself* *that* *they* *were* *charming* *children* *,* *all* *the* *six* *,* *each* *in* *his* *or* *her* *own* *way* *,* *all* *of* *them* *such* *as* *are* *rarely* *to* *be* *met* *with* *;* *and* *she* *was* *happy* *in* *them* *and* *proud* *of* *them* *.*
*'* *Yes* *,* *but* *all* *that* *has* *to* *be* *looked* *after* *,* *and* *who* *is* *going* *to* *do* *it* *?* *'* *remarked* *Dolly* *unwillingly* *.*
*The* *pain* *she* *had* *inflicted* *on* *herself* *and* *her* *husband* *would* *now* *,* *she* *thought* *,* *be* *compensated* *for* *by* *the* *fact* *that* *the* *matter* *would* *be* *settled* *.*
*She* *had* *not* *the* *courage* *to* *look* *into* *the* *eyes* *of* *the* *people* *she* *lived* *with* *.* *She* *could* *not* *make* *up* *her* *mind* *to* *call* *her* *maid* *,* *and* *still* *less* *to* *go* *down* *and* *face* *her* *son* *and* *his* *governess* *.*
*'* *Yes* *,* *especially* *as* *I* *can* *not* *stay* *long* *.* *I* *must* *go* *to* *the* *old* *Countess* *Vrede* *-* *I* *promised* *to* *,* *ages* *ago* *,* *'* *said* *Anna* *,* *to* *whom* *falsehood* *-* *so* *alien* *to* *her* *by* *nature* *-* *had* *now* *become* *so* *simple* *and* *natural* *in* *Society* *that* *it* *even* *gave* *her* *pleasure* *.*
*'* *That* *is* *the* *best* *way* *,* *'* *Stremov* *joined* *in* *.* *Stremov* *was* *a* *man* *of* *about* *fifty* *,* *getting* *grey* *,* *but* *still* *fresh* *looking* *,* *with* *a* *very* *plain* *though* *intelligent* *face* *full* *of* *character* *.*
*He* *began* *by* *first* *attacking* *his* *money* *problems* *,* *as* *the* *easiest* *to* *deal* *with* *.*
*Their* *mother* *,* *who* *had* *her* *own* *private* *fortune* *,* *allowed* *Alexis* *about* *20,000* *roubles* *a* *year* *in* *addition* *to* *the* *25,000* *agreed* *upon* *,* *and* *Alexis* *spent* *it* *all* *.*
*'* *We* *will* *come* *in* *a* *minute* *,* *'* *Vronsky* *shouted* *to* *an* *officer* *who* *looked* *in* *,* *having* *been* *sent* *by* *the* *C.O.* *to* *call* *them* *.*
*I* *am* *proud* *of* *my* *position* *because* *...* *proud* *of* *...* *proud* *...* *'* *she* *could* *not* *say* *what* *she* *was* *proud* *of* *.*
*Levin* *saw* *signs* *of* *this* *in* *the* *way* *the* *man* *was* *dressed* *-* *he* *wore* *an* *old-fashioned* *shiny* *coat* *which* *he* *was* *evidently* *not* *used* *to* *-* *and* *in* *his* *intelligent* *,* *dismal* *eyes* *,* *his* *well-turned* *Russian* *,* *his* *authoritative* *tone* *,* *evidently* *acquired* *by* *long* *practice* *,* *and* *in* *the* *firm* *movement* *of* *his* *fine* *large* *sunburnt* *hands* *,* *the* *right* *one* *having* *an* *old* *wedding-ring* *on* *the* *third* *finger* *.*
*'* *Oh* *yes* *,* *it* *is* *all* *child* *'s* *play* *for* *us* *:* *we* *have* *discovered* *what* *Europe* *is* *looking* *for* *!*
*'* *But* *what* *have* *they* *arrived* *at* *?* *'*
*'* *What* *is* *it* *you* *are* *looking* *at* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *Levin* *,* *who* *,* *having* *stopped* *at* *the* *round* *table* *,* *was* *looking* *at* *one* *of* *the* *journals* *.*
*'* *I* *still* *can* *not* *understand* *what* *you* *are* *surprised* *at* *.*
*It* *was* *evidently* *all* *the* *same* *to* *him* *what* *conclusions* *his* *reasoning* *led* *to* *:* *he* *only* *needed* *the* *process* *itself* *,* *and* *he* *did* *not* *like* *it* *when* *the* *process* *of* *reasoning* *led* *him* *up* *a* *blind* *alley* *.*
*He* *remarked* *that* *he* *had* *always* *said* *so* *but* *had* *not* *been* *listened* *to* *.*
*Yes* *it* *is* *an* *aim* *worth* *working* *for* *!*
*'* *That* *must* *form* *a* *short* *preface* *,* *such* *as* *I* *formerly* *considered* *unnecessary* *.* *'* *He* *rose* *to* *go* *to* *his* *writing-table* *,* *and* *Laska* *,* *who* *was* *lying* *at* *his* *feet* *,* *stretched* *herself* *,* *also* *got* *up* *,* *and* *looked* *round* *at* *him* *as* *if* *asking* *where* *she* *was* *to* *go* *to* *.*
*'* *I* *only* *think* *that* *the* *force* *of* *labour* *must* *be* *dealt* *with* *in* *a* *scientifically* *experimental* *manner* *.* *It* *must* *be* *studied* *and* *its* *characteristics* *...* *'*
*There* *used* *to* *be* *slaves* *everywhere* *,* *then* *villeins* *;* *and* *we* *have* *labour* *paid* *in* *kind* *,* *and* *leaseholders* *,* *and* *hired* *labour* *:* *so* *what* *are* *you* *looking* *for* *?* *'*
*But* *no* *matter* *!* *I* *can* *not* *hide* *,* *'* *he* *thought* *;* *and* *with* *the* *manner* *;* *habitual* *to* *him* *since* *childhood* *,* *of* *one* *who* *has* *nothing* *to* *be* *ashamed* *of* *,* *Vronsky* *got* *out* *of* *his* *sledge* *and* *went* *to* *the* *door* *.*
*Could* *he* *talk* *to* *her* *and* *call* *her* *by* *her* *Christian* *name* *?* *'* *And* *without* *meaning* *to* *,* *she* *again* *mimicked* *him* *:* *'* *Ma* *chère* *Anna* *;* *my* *dear* *!* *'*
*'* *Divorce* *,* *under* *our* *laws* *,* *'* *he* *said* *,* *with* *a* *slight* *shade* *of* *disapproval* *of* *the* *laws* *,* *'* *as* *you* *are* *aware* *,* *may* *be* *granted* *in* *the* *following* *cases* *...* *You* *must* *wait* *!* *'* *he* *exclaimed* *,* *addressing* *his* *assistant* *who* *had* *looked* *in* *at* *the* *door* *;* *but* *he* *rose* *all* *the* *same* *,* *spoke* *a* *few* *words* *to* *his* *assistant* *,* *and* *sat* *down* *again* *.*
*I* *must* *add* *that* *the* *latter* *case* *is* *seldom* *met* *with* *in* *practice* *,* *'* *and* *with* *a* *momentary* *glance* *at* *Karenin* *the* *lawyer* *became* *suddenly* *silent* *,* *like* *a* *man* *who* *when* *selling* *pistols* *has* *described* *the* *advantages* *of* *the* *different* *kinds* *,* *and* *waits* *for* *his* *customer* *'s* *decision* *.*
*And* *the* *solutions* *arrived* *at* *were* *in* *accord* *with* *Karenin* *'s* *opinions* *.*
*'* *Never* *mind* *!* *Tell* *them* *I* *will* *pay* *!* *'* *and* *nodding* *his* *head* *to* *an* *acquaintance* *who* *was* *driving* *past* *he* *disappeared* *round* *the* *corner* *.*
*That* *day* *he* *had* *two* *matters* *to* *see* *to* *:* *to* *interview* *a* *deputation* *from* *a* *subject-race* *which* *was* *in* *Moscow* *at* *that* *time* *,* *and* *give* *them* *instructions* *,* *and* *to* *write* *to* *the* *lawyer* *as* *he* *had* *promised* *.*
*Karenin* *had* *expected* *to* *enter* *at* *once* *upon* *the* *cool* *relation* *in* *which* *he* *would* *henceforth* *stand* *toward* *the* *brother* *of* *the* *wife* *against* *whom* *he* *was* *beginning* *divorce* *proceedings* *;* *but* *he* *had* *not* *counted* *upon* *the* *flood* *of* *kindliness* *which* *overflowed* *the* *banks* *of* *Oblonsky* *'s* *soul* *.*
*I* *was* *obliged* *to* *...* *'*
*To* *have* *a* *drink* *at* *the* *Chateau* *des* *Fleurs* *would* *be* *more* *in* *my* *line* *.* *'* *The* *old* *Prince* *sat* *silent* *,* *his* *shining* *eyes* *looking* *askance* *at* *Karenin* *,* *and* *Oblonsky* *saw* *that* *he* *had* *already* *prepared* *some* *remark* *wherewith* *to* *polish* *off* *that* *dignitary* *of* *State* *,* *whom* *people* *were* *invited* *to* *as* *to* *a* *dish* *of* *sturgeon* *.*
*'* *Alexis* *Alexandrovich* *,* *forgive* *me* *,* *I* *have* *no* *right* *to* *...* *but* *I* *love* *Anna* *like* *a* *sister* *,* *and* *respect* *her* *and* *I* *beg* *,* *I* *implore* *you* *to* *tell* *me* *what* *has* *happened* *between* *you* *,* *what* *do* *you* *accuse* *her* *of* *?* *'*
*'* *I* *can* *not* *forgive* *;* *I* *do* *n't* *wish* *to* *and* *do* *n't* *think* *it* *would* *be* *right* *.*
*The* *first* *contained* *the* *news* *that* *Stremov* *had* *obtained* *the* *very* *appointment* *Karenin* *had* *been* *hoping* *for* *.* *He* *threw* *down* *the* *telegram* *and* *flushed* *.*
*But* *what* *can* *they* *be* *aiming* *at* *?*
*By* *his* *sick* *wife* *'s* *bedside* *he* *had* *for* *the* *first* *time* *in* *his* *life* *given* *rein* *to* *that* *feeling* *of* *tender* *sympathy* *which* *the* *suffering* *of* *others* *evoked* *in* *him* *;* *and* *which* *he* *had* *till* *then* *been* *ashamed* *of* *,* *as* *of* *a* *weakness* *;* *and* *his* *pity* *for* *her* *,* *remorse* *at* *having* *wished* *for* *her* *death* *,* *and* *above* *all* *the* *joy* *of* *forgiving* *,* *in* *itself* *gave* *him* *not* *only* *relief* *from* *suffering* *but* *inward* *peace* *such* *as* *he* *had* *never* *before* *experienced* *.*
*'* *Whom* *could* *I* *speak* *to* *?*
*The* *one* *thing* *she* *was* *longing* *for* *was* *to* *get* *rid* *of* *his* *obnoxious* *presence* *.*
*'* *Yes* *,* *but* *under* *these* *circumstances* *how* *is* *an* *explanation* *to* *be* *arrived* *at* *?* *...*
*To* *him* *,* *as* *an* *agnostic* *who* *yet* *respected* *the* *religious* *beliefs* *of* *others* *,* *it* *was* *always* *very* *trying* *to* *be* *present* *at* *,* *or* *to* *take* *part* *in* *,* *any* *religious* *ceremony* *.*
*What* *does* *it* *matter* *what* *I* *write* *about* *?*
*When* *he* *was* *alone* *,* *Levin* *,* *thinking* *over* *the* *remarks* *of* *the* *three* *bachelors* *,* *once* *more* *asked* *himself* *whether* *there* *was* *in* *his* *soul* *any* *of* *that* *regret* *for* *his* *freedom* *that* *they* *had* *been* *speaking* *about* *.*
*'* *What* *are* *you* *thinking* *about* *?*
*She* *could* *not* *think* *of* *or* *desire* *anything* *but* *life* *with* *this* *man* *;* *but* *,* *as* *that* *life* *had* *not* *yet* *begun* *,* *she* *could* *not* *even* *clearly* *picture* *it* *to* *herself* *.*
*When* *what* *was* *necessary* *had* *at* *length* *been* *complied* *with* *,* *he* *made* *the* *sign* *of* *the* *cross* *over* *them* *with* *the* *rings* *and* *again* *gave* *the* *larger* *one* *to* *Kitty* *and* *the* *little* *one* *to* *Levin* *,* *and* *again* *they* *blundered* *and* *passed* *the* *rings* *twice* *backwards* *and* *forwards* *without* *doing* *what* *was* *necessary* *.*
*After* *an* *absent-minded* *glance* *at* *the* *man* *who* *was* *still* *standing* *there* *watching* *him* *,* *he* *was* *about* *to* *go* *in* *.*
*But* *had* *he* *,* *and* *those* *who* *understood* *the* *matter* *in* *the* *'* *right* *'* *way* *,* *been* *asked* *what* *this* *understanding* *amounted* *to* *,* *they* *would* *have* *been* *much* *puzzled* *how* *to* *reply* *.*
*Yet* *Vronsky* *was* *surprised* *at* *,* *and* *sorry* *to* *see* *,* *the* *irritable* *excitement* *with* *which* *Golenishchev* *spoke* *on* *the* *subject* *that* *interested* *him* *.*
*On* *the* *one* *hand* *this* *memory* *was* *too* *terrible* *to* *dwell* *upon* *,* *and* *on* *the* *other* *hand* *her* *husband* *'s* *misfortune* *had* *meant* *for* *her* *too* *great* *a* *joy* *for* *repentance* *to* *be* *possible* *.*
*The* *pleasures* *of* *a* *bachelor* *'s* *life* *,* *enjoyed* *by* *him* *on* *his* *previous* *travels* *abroad* *,* *were* *not* *to* *be* *thought* *of* *now* *,* *for* *one* *attempt* *of* *that* *kind* *had* *produced* *in* *Anna* *an* *unexpected* *fit* *of* *depression* *quite* *disproportionate* *to* *the* *offence* *of* *a* *late* *supper* *with* *some* *acquaintances* *.*
*'* *Here* *we* *live* *and* *know* *nothing* *,* *'* *said* *Vronsky* *one* *morning* *to* *Golenishchev* *,* *who* *had* *come* *to* *see* *him* *.* *'* *Have* *you* *seen* *Mikhaylov* *'s* *picture* *?* *'* *and* *he* *passed* *his* *visitor* *a* *Russian* *newspaper* *that* *had* *just* *arrived* *,* *and* *pointed* *to* *an* *article* *on* *a* *Russian* *artist* *who* *was* *living* *in* *that* *town* *,* *and* *had* *just* *finished* *a* *picture* *long* *talked* *of* *and* *bought* *before* *completion* *.*
*Moreover* *,* *he* *saw* *that* *if* *technique* *were* *spoken* *of* *,* *then* *he* *could* *not* *be* *praised* *for* *it* *.*
*What* *was* *he* *thinking* *about* *?*
*For* *a* *moment* *he* *felt* *like* *a* *man* *who* *,* *receiving* *a* *blow* *from* *behind* *,* *angrily* *and* *revengefully* *turns* *round* *to* *find* *his* *assailant* *and* *realizes* *that* *he* *has* *accidentally* *knocked* *himself* *,* *that* *there* *is* *no* *one* *to* *be* *angry* *with* *and* *that* *he* *must* *endure* *and* *try* *to* *still* *the* *pain* *.*
*'* *I* *am* *afraid* *to* *,* *'* *answered* *Mary* *Nikolavna* *.*
*Had* *Levin* *now* *been* *alone* *with* *his* *brother* *Nicholas* *,* *he* *would* *have* *looked* *at* *him* *with* *horror* *,* *and* *would* *have* *waited* *about* *in* *still* *greater* *horror* *not* *knowing* *what* *to* *do* *next* *.*
*Not* *only* *could* *he* *not* *think* *of* *supper* *,* *of* *getting* *ready* *for* *the* *night* *,* *of* *considering* *what* *they* *were* *to* *do* *,* *he* *could* *not* *even* *talk* *to* *his* *wife* *:* *he* *was* *ashamed* *to* *.*
*'* *I* *am* *weak* *-* *I* *am* *done* *for* *!*
*He* *still* *held* *an* *important* *post* *,* *was* *member* *of* *many* *Commissions* *and* *Committees* *,* *but* *he* *was* *finished* *,* *and* *from* *him* *nothing* *further* *was* *to* *be* *looked* *for* *.*
*Whatever* *he* *might* *say* *,* *whatever* *he* *might* *propose* *,* *he* *was* *listened* *to* *as* *if* *all* *he* *was* *proposing* *had* *long* *been* *known* *and* *was* *what* *no* *one* *wanted* *.*
*But* *what* *can* *it* *lead* *to* *?*
*'* *But* *I* *can* *see* *better* *without* *a* *candle* *what* *I* *have* *been* *praying* *for* *!*
*She* *could* *not* *share* *it* *with* *Vronsky* *and* *did* *not* *wish* *to* *.*
*GREATLY* *AS* *ANNA* *HAD* *DESIRED* *TO* *SEE* *HER* *SON* *,* *and* *long* *as* *she* *had* *thought* *of* *and* *prepared* *herself* *for* *the* *interview* *,* *she* *had* *not* *at* *all* *expected* *that* *it* *would* *affect* *her* *so* *powerfully* *.*
*Let* *me* *have* *them* *,* *'* *she* *added* *,* *with* *a* *rapid* *movement* *taking* *from* *Vronsky* *the* *photos* *he* *was* *looking* *at* *,* *and* *glancing* *at* *him* *impressively* *with* *glistening* *eyes* *.*
*To* *these* *oases* *Vronsky* *at* *once* *turned* *his* *attention* *and* *immediately* *got* *into* *touch* *with* *them* *.*
*Yes* *,* *what* *were* *we* *talking* *about* *?* *'* *he* *concluded* *after* *a* *pause* *.*
*What* *are* *you* *dissatisfied* *with* *?* *'* *she* *said* *with* *the* *same* *smile* *.*
*I* *have* *lived* *many* *years* *,* *and* *now* *in* *you* *for* *the* *first* *time* *I* *have* *met* *what* *I* *was* *in* *search* *of* *.*
*He* *wished* *to* *bring* *her* *back* *to* *her* *first* *remark* *about* *her* *childhood* *;* *but* *without* *wishing* *to* *,* *after* *a* *pause* *,* *he* *replied* *to* *her* *last* *words* *:*
*'* *What* *can* *you* *be* *thinking* *of* *,* *since* *men* *do* *not* *exist* *for* *me* *?* *They* *do* *n't* *!*
*'* *Why* *,* *but* *three* *steps* *will* *add* *to* *its* *length* *as* *well* *...* *Where* *will* *it* *get* *to* *?* *'*
*The* *moon* *,* *which* *was* *still* *giving* *light* *when* *first* *he* *went* *out* *,* *now* *shone* *only* *like* *quicksilver* *;* *the* *streak* *of* *dawn* *,* *previously* *so* *noticeable* *,* *now* *had* *to* *be* *looked* *for* *;* *what* *had* *been* *vague* *spots* *on* *the* *distant* *field* *were* *now* *clearly* *visible* *.*
*'* *But* *I* *ca* *n't* *go* *,* *'* *thought* *she* *.* *'* *Where* *should* *I* *go* *to* *?*
*'* *Oh* *,* *she* *is* *a* *horrid* *child* *!* *'* *she* *cried* *,* *addressing* *Levin* *.* *'* *Where* *do* *these* *vile* *tendencies* *in* *her* *come* *from* *?* *'*
*Well* *,* *supposing* *the* *best* *:* *that* *none* *of* *the* *other* *children* *die* *,* *and* *that* *I* *somehow* *succeed* *in* *bringing* *them* *up* *;* *at* *the* *very* *best* *they* *will* *only* *escape* *being* *ne* *'er-do-wells* *.* *That* *is* *all* *I* *can* *hope* *for* *.*
*The* *clerk* *,* *to* *hide* *his* *embarrassment* *,* *bustled* *about* *,* *helping* *the* *ladies* *in* *,* *but* *Philip* *became* *morose* *and* *made* *up* *his* *mind* *not* *to* *be* *imposed* *upon* *by* *this* *eternal* *superiority* *.*
*Feeling* *embarrassed* *,* *she* *tried* *to* *think* *of* *something* *to* *talk* *about* *.*
*'* *I* *do* *n't* *understand* *anything* *about* *horses* *,* *and* *shall* *be* *very* *pleased* *to* *,* *'* *answered* *Dolly* *,* *taken* *rather* *by* *surprise* *.*
*She* *had* *nothing* *to* *change* *into* *as* *she* *was* *already* *wearing* *her* *best* *dress* *;* *but* *to* *give* *some* *sign* *that* *she* *had* *prepared* *for* *dinner* *,* *she* *asked* *the* *maid* *to* *brush* *her* *dress* *,* *and* *she* *put* *on* *clean* *cuffs* *,* *pinned* *a* *fresh* *bow* *to* *her* *dress* *and* *placed* *some* *lace* *in* *her* *hair* *.*
*The* *price* *of* *the* *wire* *must* *be* *allowed* *for* *.* *]* *and* *the* *German* *,* *drawn* *from* *his* *silence* *,* *turned* *to* *Vronsky* *.* *'* *Das* *lässt* *sich* *ausrechnen* *,* *Erlaucht* *!* *'*
*'* *There* *'s* *nothing* *to* *be* *surprised* *at* *,* *considering* *how* *much* *I* *hear* *and* *see* *of* *it* *,* *'* *said* *Anna* *.* *'* *And* *you* *,* *I* *'m* *sure* *,* *do* *n't* *even* *know* *what* *houses* *are* *made* *of* *!* *'*
*'* *But* *tell* *me* *about* *yourself* *.* *I* *have* *much* *to* *talk* *to* *you* *about* *and* *I* *have* *been* *talking* *with* *...*
*She* *smiled* *.* *'* *Well* *then* *,* *what* *did* *he* *talk* *about* *to* *you* *?* *'*
*And* *however* *white* *and* *shapely* *her* *bare* *arms* *may* *be* *,* *however* *beautiful* *her* *full* *figure* *and* *her* *flushed* *face* *surrounded* *by* *that* *black* *hair* *-* *he* *will* *find* *others* *still* *more* *beautiful* *,* *as* *my* *horrid* *,* *pitiable* *and* *dear* *husband* *looks* *for* *and* *finds* *them* *!* *'*
*He* *did* *not* *wish* *to* *ask* *her* *what* *they* *had* *been* *talking* *about* *,* *but* *hoped* *that* *she* *would* *tell* *him* *of* *her* *own* *accord* *.*
*Their* *life* *seemed* *one* *that* *could* *not* *be* *improved* *upon* *:* *they* *had* *ample* *means* *,* *good* *health* *,* *a* *child* *,* *and* *both* *had* *occupations* *of* *their* *own* *.*
*Levin* *had* *also* *some* *very* *important* *business* *to* *attend* *to* *in* *Kashin* *for* *his* *sister* *who* *lived* *abroad* *.* *It* *was* *in* *connection* *with* *a* *wardship* *and* *the* *receiving* *of* *money* *due* *to* *her* *for* *land* *transferred* *to* *the* *peasants* *.*
*In* *the* *cathedral* *Levin* *,* *with* *the* *others* *,* *raised* *his* *hand* *,* *repeating* *the* *words* *of* *the* *priest* *,* *and* *swore* *by* *the* *most* *awful* *oaths* *to* *fulfil* *all* *the* *things* *the* *Governor* *had* *hoped* *for* *.*
*The* *Act* *provided* *that* *in* *case* *of* *a* *difference* *of* *opinion* *the* *question* *should* *be* *balloted* *upon* *.*
*The* *leaders* *of* *both* *parties* *were* *making* *estimates* *and* *calculating* *on* *their* *fingers* *the* *white* *and* *black* *balls* *they* *could* *reckon* *on* *.*
*'* *As* *candidate* *for* *the* *post* *of* *Provincial* *Marshal* *,* *Captain* *Eugene* *Ivanich* *Apukhtin* *will* *now* *be* *balloted* *for* *.* *'* *Then* *followed* *a* *dead* *silence* *,* *and* *a* *feeble* *voice* *was* *heard* *saying* *:*
*'* *Court* *Councillor* *Peter* *Petrovich* *Bol* *will* *now* *be* *balloted* *for* *,* *'* *cried* *the* *voice* *of* *the* *man* *in* *uniform* *.*
*Levin* *,* *leaning* *over* *the* *balustrade* *,* *looked* *on* *and* *listened* *.*
*She* *could* *not* *think* *without* *horror* *of* *where* *men* *drove* *to* *in* *such* *cases* *.*
*Levin* *had* *forgotten* *the* *commission* *he* *had* *been* *charged* *with* *and* *only* *remembered* *it* *when* *on* *his* *way* *to* *the* *ante-room* *.*
*'* *You* *ca* *n't* *follow* *without* *it* *,* *'* *said* *Pestsov* *turning* *to* *Levin* *,* *as* *the* *man* *he* *had* *been* *talking* *to* *had* *gone* *away* *and* *he* *had* *no* *one* *else* *to* *talk* *to* *.*
*She* *now* *has* *a* *little* *English* *girl* *,* *and* *a* *whole* *family* *she* *is* *interested* *in* *.* *'*
*To* *forgive* *,* *she* *would* *have* *to* *live* *through* *what* *I* *have* *lived* *through* *,* *and* *may* *God* *preserve* *her* *from* *that* *!* *'*
*Levin* *listened* *to* *them* *and* *at* *the* *same* *time* *involuntarily* *thought* *of* *the* *past* *and* *of* *what* *had* *been* *going* *on* *before* *that* *morning* *,* *remembering* *himself* *as* *he* *had* *been* *yesterday* *before* *this* *event* *.*
*What* *is* *she* *thinking* *about* *?*
*'* *I* *am* *hard* *up* *;* *have* *nothing* *to* *live* *on* *.* *'*
*You* *understand* *what* *I* *am* *speaking* *about* *?* *'* *she* *said* *,* *lifting* *her* *beautiful* *dreamy* *eyes* *.*
*Sin* *does* *not* *exist* *for* *a* *believer* *;* *sin* *has* *already* *been* *atoned* *for* *...*
*OBLONSKY* *FELT* *COMPLETELY* *PUZZLED* *by* *the* *strange* *and* *novel* *language* *he* *was* *listening* *to* *.*
*But* *she* *immediately* *began* *to* *wonder* *what* *those* *two* *young* *girls* *could* *be* *smiling* *at* *.* *'* *Love* *,* *probably* *!*
*'* *I* *will* *be* *sure* *to* *,* *'* *repeated* *Kitty* *naively* *,* *looking* *compassionately* *into* *her* *eyes* *.*
*She* *imagined* *him* *now* *calmly* *conversing* *with* *his* *mother* *and* *the* *Princess* *Sorokina* *,* *and* *rejoicing* *at* *her* *sufferings* *.* *'* *Yes* *,* *I* *must* *go* *at* *once* *,* *'* *she* *thought* *,* *not* *yet* *sure* *where* *to* *go* *to* *.*
*'* *And* *the* *dog* *you* *have* *with* *you* *wo* *n't* *help* *you* *!* *You* *ca* *n't* *escape* *from* *yourselves* *.* *'*
*Glancing* *in* *the* *direction* *in* *which* *Peter* *was* *looking* *she* *saw* *a* *workman* *,* *nearly* *dead-drunk* *,* *with* *his* *head* *swaying* *about* *,* *who* *was* *being* *led* *off* *somewhere* *by* *a* *policeman* *.* *'* *That* *one* *is* *more* *likely* *to* *,* *'* *she* *thought* *.*
*Now* *that* *is* *past* *.* *There* *is* *nothing* *to* *be* *proud* *of* *.*
*Why* *not* *put* *out* *the* *candle* *,* *if* *there* *is* *nothing* *more* *to* *look* *at* *?* *If* *everything* *is* *repulsive* *to* *look* *at* *?*
*The* *young* *men* *did* *not* *leave* *her* *in* *peace* *.* *Gazing* *into* *her* *face* *and* *laughing* *and* *shouting* *unnaturally* *they* *again* *passed* *by* *.*
*Among* *the* *people* *to* *whom* *he* *belonged* *,* *nothing* *was* *written* *or* *talked* *about* *at* *that* *time* *except* *the* *Serbian* *war* *.*
*'* *Where* *to* *?* *'*
*'* *Yes* *,* *it* *'s* *particularly* *artillerymen* *they* *are* *short* *of* *,* *'* *said* *Katavasov* *.*
*'* *As* *a* *man* *I* *have* *this* *quality* *,* *that* *I* *do* *not* *value* *my* *life* *at* *all* *and* *that* *I* *have* *physical* *energy* *enough* *to* *hack* *my* *way* *into* *a* *square* *and* *slay* *or* *fall* *-* *that* *I* *am* *sure* *of* *.*
*'* *You* *will* *recover* *,* *I* *prophesy* *it* *,* *'* *said* *Koznyshev* *,* *feeling* *touched* *.* *'* *To* *free* *one* *'s* *brothers* *from* *oppression* *is* *an* *aim* *worth* *both* *dying* *and* *living* *for* *.*
*And* *having* *arranged* *that* *Levin* *should* *be* *sent* *for* *and* *that* *the* *dusty* *visitors* *should* *be* *shown* *where* *to* *wash* *-* *one* *of* *them* *in* *Levin* *'s* *study* *and* *the* *other* *in* *Dolly* *'s* *former* *room* *-* *and* *about* *lunch* *for* *them* *,* *Kitty* *,* *exercising* *the* *right* *of* *moving* *quickly* *of* *which* *she* *had* *been* *deprived* *during* *pregnancy* *,* *ran* *up* *the* *balcony* *stairs* *.*
*Were* *they* *not* *pretending* *?* *Or* *did* *they* *understand* *possibly* *in* *some* *different* *and* *clearer* *way* *than* *he* *,* *the* *answers* *science* *gives* *to* *the* *questions* *he* *was* *concerned* *with* *?*
*He* *said* *we* *must* *not* *live* *for* *our* *needs* *-* *that* *is* *,* *we* *must* *not* *live* *for* *what* *we* *understand* *and* *what* *attracts* *us* *,* *what* *we* *wish* *for* *,* *but* *must* *live* *for* *something* *incomprehensible* *,* *for* *God* *whom* *nobody* *can* *understand* *or* *define* *.*
*I* *and* *millions* *of* *men* *who* *lived* *centuries* *ago* *and* *those* *who* *are* *living* *now* *:* *peasants* *,* *the* *poor* *in* *spirit* *,* *and* *sages* *,* *who* *have* *thought* *and* *written* *about* *it* *,* *saying* *the* *same* *thing* *in* *their* *obscure* *words* *-* *we* *all* *agree* *on* *that* *one* *thing* *:* *what* *we* *should* *live* *for* *,* *and* *what* *is* *good* *.*
*Nothing* *of* *that* *which* *constitutes* *the* *chief* *joys* *of* *my* *life* *would* *have* *existed* *for* *me* *.* *'* *And* *although* *he* *made* *the* *greatest* *efforts* *of* *imagination* *,* *he* *could* *not* *picture* *to* *himself* *the* *bestial* *creature* *he* *would* *have* *been* *,* *had* *he* *not* *known* *what* *he* *was* *living* *for* *.*
*And* *they* *could* *not* *believe* *it* *,* *because* *they* *could* *not* *imagine* *the* *whole* *volume* *of* *all* *they* *consumed* *,* *and* *therefore* *could* *not* *conceive* *that* *what* *they* *were* *destroying* *was* *the* *very* *thing* *they* *lived* *on* *.*
*'* *I* *have* *long* *been* *meaning* *to* *!*
*Leaving* *his* *tea* *and* *regretting* *the* *interruption* *in* *the* *interesting* *conversation* *,* *yet* *uneasy* *as* *to* *why* *he* *was* *sent* *for* *,* *as* *this* *only* *happened* *on* *important* *occasions* *;* *Levin* *went* *to* *the* *nursery* *.*
*He* *had* *besides* *the* *things* *before* *mentioned* *,* *twelve* *marbles* *,* *part* *of* *a* *jews-harp* *,* *a* *piece* *of* *blue* *bottle-glass* *to* *look* *through* *,* *a* *spool* *cannon* *,* *a* *key* *that* *would* *n't* *unlock* *anything* *,* *a* *fragment* *of* *chalk* *,* *a* *glass* *stopper* *of* *a* *decanter* *,* *a* *tin* *soldier* *,* *a* *couple* *of* *tadpoles* *,* *six* *fire-crackers* *,* *a* *kitten* *with* *only* *one* *eye* *,* *a* *brass* *door-knob* *,* *a* *dog-collar* *--* *but* *no* *dog* *--* *the* *handle* *of* *a* *knife* *,* *four* *pieces* *of* *orange-peel* *,* *and* *a* *dilapidated* *old* *window* *sash* *.*
*Then* *the* *dead* *were* *counted* *,* *prisoners* *exchanged* *,* *the* *terms* *of* *the* *next* *disagreement* *agreed* *upon* *,* *and* *the* *day* *for* *the* *necessary* *battle* *appointed* *;* *after* *which* *the* *armies* *fell* *into* *line* *and* *marched* *away* *,* *and* *Tom* *turned* *homeward* *alone* *.*
*When* *a* *Sunday-school* *superintendent* *makes* *his* *customary* *little* *speech* *,* *a* *hymn-book* *in* *the* *hand* *is* *as* *necessary* *as* *is* *the* *inevitable* *sheet* *of* *music* *in* *the* *hand* *of* *a* *singer* *who* *stands* *forward* *on* *the* *platform* *and* *sings* *a* *solo* *at* *a* *concert* *--* *though* *why* *,* *is* *a* *mystery* *:* *for* *neither* *the* *hymn-book* *nor* *the* *sheet* *of* *music* *is* *ever* *referred* *to* *by* *the* *sufferer* *.*
*The* *middle-aged* *man* *turned* *out* *to* *be* *a* *prodigious* *personage* *--* *no* *less* *a* *one* *than* *the* *county* *judge* *--* *altogether* *the* *most* *august* *creation* *these* *children* *had* *ever* *looked* *upon* *--* *and* *they* *wondered* *what* *kind* *of* *material* *he* *was* *made* *of* *--* *and* *they* *half* *wanted* *to* *hear* *him* *roar* *,* *and* *were* *half* *afraid* *he* *might* *,* *too* *.*
*It* *was* *the* *most* *stunning* *surprise* *of* *the* *decade* *,* *and* *so* *profound* *was* *the* *sensation* *that* *it* *lifted* *the* *new* *hero* *up* *to* *the* *judicial* *one* *'s* *altitude* *,* *and* *the* *school* *had* *two* *marvels* *to* *gaze* *upon* *in* *place* *of* *one* *.*
*This* *was* *lucky* *;* *he* *was* *about* *to* *begin* *to* *groan* *,* *as* *a* *``* *starter* *,* *''* *as* *he* *called* *it* *,* *when* *it* *occurred* *to* *him* *that* *if* *he* *came* *into* *court* *with* *that* *argument* *,* *his* *aunt* *would* *pull* *it* *out* *,* *and* *that* *would* *hurt* *.*
*``* *Say* *--* *what* *is* *dead* *cats* *good* *for* *,* *Huck* *?* *''*
*"* *Thomas* *Sawyer* *,* *this* *is* *the* *most* *astounding* *confession* *I* *have* *ever* *listened* *to* *.* *No* *mere* *ferule* *will* *answer* *for* *this* *offence* *.*
*``* *Oh* *,* *Tom* *!* *Then* *I* *ai* *n't* *the* *first* *you* *'ve* *ever* *been* *engaged* *to* *!* *''*
*All* *the* *old* *graves* *were* *sunken* *in* *,* *there* *was* *not* *a* *tombstone* *on* *the* *place* *;* *round-topped* *,* *worm-eaten* *boards* *staggered* *over* *the* *graves* *,* *leaning* *for* *support* *and* *finding* *none* *.*
*Joe* *,* *I* *never* *meant* *to* *--* *'* *pon* *my* *soul* *and* *honor* *,* *I* *never* *meant* *to* *,* *Joe* *.*
*THE* *two* *boys* *flew* *on* *and* *on* *,* *toward* *the* *village* *,* *speechless* *with* *horror* *.*
*I* *reckon* *there* *ai* *n't* *no* *mistake* *'* *bout* *where* *_* *I* *'ll* *_* *go* *to* *.*
*He* *was* *now* *become* *,* *to* *them* *,* *the* *most* *balefully* *interesting* *object* *they* *had* *ever* *looked* *upon* *,* *and* *they* *could* *not* *take* *their* *fascinated* *eyes* *from* *his* *face* *.*
*``* *Nothing* *.* *Nothing* *'t* *I* *know* *of* *.* *''*
*The* *next* *instant* *he* *was* *out* *,* *and* *``* *going* *on* *''* *like* *an* *Indian* *;* *yelling* *,* *laughing* *,* *chasing* *boys* *,* *jumping* *over* *the* *fence* *at* *risk* *of* *life* *and* *limb* *,* *throwing* *handsprings* *,* *standing* *on* *his* *head* *--* *doing* *all* *the* *heroic* *things* *he* *could* *conceive* *of* *,* *and* *keeping* *a* *furtive* *eye* *out* *,* *all* *the* *while* *,* *to* *see* *if* *Becky* *Thatcher* *was* *noticing* *.*
*They* *made* *him* *understand* *that* *his* *poor* *rags* *would* *do* *to* *begin* *with* *,* *though* *it* *was* *customary* *for* *wealthy* *pirates* *to* *start* *with* *a* *proper* *wardrobe* *.*
*They* *found* *plenty* *of* *things* *to* *be* *delighted* *with* *,* *but* *nothing* *to* *be* *astonished* *at* *.*
*They* *caught* *fish* *,* *cooked* *supper* *and* *ate* *it* *,* *and* *then* *fell* *to* *guessing* *at* *what* *the* *village* *was* *thinking* *and* *saying* *about* *them* *;* *and* *the* *pictures* *they* *drew* *of* *the* *public* *distress* *on* *their* *account* *were* *gratifying* *to* *look* *upon* *--* *from* *their* *point* *of* *view* *.*
*Go* *'* *long* *home* *and* *get* *laughed* *at* *.*
*When* *he* *got* *to* *where* *they* *were* *,* *he* *began* *unfolding* *his* *secret* *,* *and* *they* *listened* *moodily* *till* *at* *last* *they* *saw* *the* *``* *point* *''* *he* *was* *driving* *at* *,* *and* *then* *they* *set* *up* *a* *warwhoop* *of* *applause* *and* *said* *it* *was* *``* *splendid* *!* *''* *and* *said* *if* *he* *had* *told* *them* *at* *first* *,* *they* *would* *n't* *have* *started* *away* *.*
*A* *sweep* *of* *chilly* *air* *passed* *by* *,* *rustling* *all* *the* *leaves* *and* *snowing* *the* *flaky* *ashes* *broadcast* *about* *the* *fire* *.*
*However* *,* *one* *by* *one* *they* *straggled* *in* *at* *last* *and* *took* *shelter* *under* *the* *tent* *,* *cold* *,* *scared* *,* *and* *streaming* *with* *water* *;* *but* *to* *have* *company* *in* *misery* *seemed* *something* *to* *be* *grateful* *for* *.*
*It* *was* *a* *wild* *night* *for* *homeless* *young* *heads* *to* *be* *out* *in* *.*
*The* *boys* *went* *back* *to* *camp* *,* *a* *good* *deal* *awed* *;* *but* *they* *found* *there* *was* *still* *something* *to* *be* *thankful* *for* *,* *because* *the* *great* *sycamore* *,* *the* *shelter* *of* *their* *beds* *,* *was* *a* *ruin* *,* *now* *,* *blasted* *by* *the* *lightnings* *,* *and* *they* *were* *not* *under* *it* *when* *the* *catastrophe* *happened* *.*
*They* *dried* *their* *boiled* *ham* *and* *had* *a* *feast* *,* *and* *after* *that* *they* *sat* *by* *the* *fire* *and* *expanded* *and* *glorified* *their* *midnight* *adventure* *until* *morning* *,* *for* *there* *was* *not* *a* *dry* *spot* *to* *sleep* *on* *,* *anywhere* *around* *.*
*Then* *there* *was* *a* *dispute* *about* *who* *saw* *the* *dead* *boys* *last* *in* *life* *,* *and* *many* *claimed* *that* *dismal* *distinction* *,* *and* *offered* *evidences* *,* *more* *or* *less* *tampered* *with* *by* *the* *witness* *;* *and* *when* *it* *was* *ultimately* *decided* *who* *_* *did* *_* *see* *the* *departed* *last* *,* *and* *exchanged* *the* *last* *words* *with* *them* *,* *the* *lucky* *parties* *took* *upon* *themselves* *a* *sort* *of* *sacred* *importance* *,* *and* *were* *gaped* *at* *and* *envied* *by* *all* *the* *rest* *.*
*``* *He* *said* *--* *I* *_* *think* *_* *he* *said* *he* *hoped* *I* *was* *better* *off* *where* *I* *was* *gone* *to* *,* *but* *if* *I* *'d* *been* *better* *sometimes* *--* *''*
*He* *called* *himself* *a* *fool* *,* *and* *all* *the* *hard* *names* *he* *could* *think* *of* *.*
*Tom* *hinted* *at* *things* *he* *had* *to* *attend* *to* *;* *things* *that* *must* *be* *done* *;* *and* *time* *was* *fleeting* *.*
*She* *thrust* *the* *volume* *into* *the* *desk* *,* *turned* *the* *key* *,* *and* *burst* *out* *crying* *with* *shame* *and* *vexation* *.* *``* *Tom* *Sawyer* *,* *you* *are* *just* *as* *mean* *as* *you* *can* *be* *,* *to* *sneak* *up* *on* *a* *person* *and* *look* *at* *what* *they* *'re* *looking* *at* *.* *''*
*A* *whole* *hour* *drifted* *by* *,* *the* *master* *sat* *nodding* *in* *his* *throne* *,* *the* *air* *was* *drowsy* *with* *the* *hum* *of* *study* *.*
*The* *mayor* *of* *the* *village* *,* *in* *delivering* *the* *prize* *to* *the* *author* *of* *it* *,* *made* *a* *warm* *speech* *in* *which* *he* *said* *that* *it* *was* *by* *far* *the* *most* *``* *eloquent* *''* *thing* *he* *had* *ever* *listened* *to* *,* *and* *that* *Daniel* *Webster* *himself* *might* *well* *be* *proud* *of* *it* *.*
*It* *may* *be* *remarked* *,* *in* *passing* *,* *that* *the* *number* *of* *compositions* *in* *which* *the* *word* *``* *beauteous* *''* *was* *over-fondled* *,* *and* *human* *experience* *referred* *to* *as* *``* *life* *'s* *page* *,* *''* *was* *up* *to* *the* *usual* *average* *.*
*``* *Then* *how* *you* *going* *to* *know* *which* *one* *to* *go* *for* *?* *''*
*"* *Shucks* *,* *I* *only* *meant* *you* *'d* *_* *see* *_* *'* *em* *--* *not* *hopping* *,* *of* *course* *--* *what* *do* *they* *want* *to* *hop* *for* *?* *--* *but* *I* *mean* *you* *'d* *just* *see* *'* *em* *--* *scattered* *around* *,* *you* *know* *,* *in* *a* *kind* *of* *a* *general* *way* *.*
*``* *Why* *,* *so* *as* *to* *have* *something* *to* *live* *on* *,* *by* *and* *by* *.* *''*
*When* *they* *reached* *the* *haunted* *house* *there* *was* *something* *so* *weird* *and* *grisly* *about* *the* *dead* *silence* *that* *reigned* *there* *under* *the* *baking* *sun* *,* *and* *something* *so* *depressing* *about* *the* *loneliness* *and* *desolation* *of* *the* *place* *,* *that* *they* *were* *afraid* *,* *for* *a* *moment* *,* *to* *venture* *in* *.*
*Here* *--* *bear* *a* *hand* *and* *we* *'ll* *see* *what* *it* *'s* *here* *for* *.*
*"* *Huck* *,* *I* *did* *n't* *wait* *to* *look* *around* *.*
*All* *the* *different* *ways* *of* *getting* *hot* *and* *tired* *were* *gone* *through* *with* *,* *and* *by-and-by* *the* *rovers* *straggled* *back* *to* *camp* *fortified* *with* *responsible* *appetites* *,* *and* *then* *the* *destruction* *of* *the* *good* *things* *began* *.*
*They* *fired* *a* *shot* *apiece* *as* *they* *started* *,* *but* *their* *bullets* *whizzed* *by* *and* *did* *n't* *do* *us* *any* *harm* *.*
*"* *Do* *n't* *say* *a* *word* *about* *it* *,* *madam* *.* *There* *'s* *another* *that* *you* *'re* *more* *beholden* *to* *than* *you* *are* *to* *me* *and* *my* *boys* *,* *maybe* *,* *but* *he* *do* *n't* *allow* *me* *to* *tell* *his* *name* *.*
*Those* *fellows* *war* *n't* *likely* *to* *come* *again* *--* *they* *had* *n't* *any* *tools* *left* *to* *work* *with* *,* *and* *what* *was* *the* *use* *of* *waking* *you* *up* *and* *scaring* *you* *to* *death* *?*
*But* *what* *could* *she* *be* *crying* *about* *?*
*The* *weary* *time* *dragged* *on* *;* *they* *slept* *again* *,* *and* *awoke* *famished* *and* *woe-stricken* *.*
*Tom* *lifted* *up* *a* *glorious* *shout* *,* *and* *instantly* *that* *hand* *was* *followed* *by* *the* *body* *it* *belonged* *to* *--* *Injun* *Joe* *'s* *!*
*Four* *avenues* *opened* *out* *of* *the* *small* *cavern* *which* *the* *great* *rock* *stood* *in* *.*
*What* *do* *you* *want* *to* *be* *afraid* *for* *?* *"*
*``* *Shucks* *!* *what* *do* *you* *want* *to* *slope* *for* *?* *''*
*Wherever* *Tom* *and* *Huck* *appeared* *they* *were* *courted* *,* *admired* *,* *stared* *at* *.*
*"* *Huck* *,* *I* *would* *n't* *want* *to* *,* *and* *I* *_* *do* *n't* *_* *want* *to* *--* *but* *what* *would* *people* *say* *?* *Why* *,* *they* *'d* *say* *,* *'* *Mph* *!*
This precious vessel was now placed on my knee , and I was cordially invited to eat the circlet of delicate pastry upon it . Vain favour ! coming , like most other favours long deferred and often *wished* *for* , too late !
`` Do n't you think Gateshead Hall a very beautiful house ? '' asked he . `` Are you not very thankful to have such a fine place to *live* *at* ? ''
" Is there anything else you *wish* *for* , Jane ?
But you are rather *put* *upon* , that 's certain .
`` Ay , ay ! '' was the answer : the door was *slapped* *to* , a voice exclaimed `` All right , '' and on we drove .
I devoured my bread and drank my coffee with relish ; but I should have been *glad* *of* as much more -- I was still hungry .
I generally contrived to reserve a moiety of this bounteous repast for myself ; but the remainder I was invariably obliged to *part* *with* .
I wish the woollen stockings were better *looked* *to* ! -- when I was here last , I went into the kitchen-garden and examined the clothes drying on the line ; there was a quantity of black hose in a very bad state of repair : from the size of the holes in them I was sure they had not been well mended from time to time . "
They conversed of things I had never *heard* *of* ; of nations and times past ; of countries far away ; of secrets of nature discovered or guessed at : they spoke of books : how many they had read !
Mr. Brocklehurst and his family never came near Lowood now : household matters were not *scrutinised* *into* ; the cross housekeeper was gone , driven away by the fear of infection ; her successor , who had been matron at the Lowton Dispensary , unused to the ways of her new abode , provided with comparative liberality .
My favourite seat was a smooth and broad stone , rising white and dry from the very middle of the beck , and only to be *got* *at* by wading through the water ; a feat I accomplished barefoot .
Mary Ann remarked that she supposed some one must be very ill , as Mr. Bates had been *sent* *for* at that time of the evening .
I saw the outline of a form under the clothes , but the face was hid by the hangings : the nurse I had *spoken* *to* in the garden sat in an easy-chair asleep ; an unsnuffed candle burnt dimly on the table .
I was not reprimanded for leaving my bed ; people had something else to *think* *about* ; no explanation was afforded then to my many questions ; but a day or two afterwards I learned that Miss Temple , on returning to her own room at dawn , had found me laid in the little crib ; my face against Helen Burns 's shoulder , my arms round her neck .
The next day she laid the affair before Mr. Brocklehurst , who said that Mrs. Reed must be *written* *to* , as she was my natural guardian .
I had brushed my black stuff travelling-dress , prepared my bonnet , gloves , and muff ; sought in all my drawers to see that no article was *left* *behind* ; and now having nothing more to do , I sat down and tried to rest .
" Well , and how do they all *get* *on* ?
Well , our ship stopped in the morning , before it was quite daylight , at a great city -- a huge city , with very dark houses and all smoky ; not at all like the pretty clean town I *came* *from* ; and Mr. Rochester carried me in his arms over a plank to the land , and Sophie came after , and we all got into a coach , which took us to a beautiful large house , larger than this and finer , called an hotel .
`` Adele , '' I inquired , `` with whom did you live when you were in that pretty clean town you *spoke* *of* ? ''
`` None that I ever *heard* *of* , '' returned Mrs. Fairfax , smiling .
Anybody may blame me who likes , when I add further , that , now and then , when I took a walk by myself in the grounds ; when I went down to the gates and looked through them along the road ; or when , while Adele played with her nurse , and Mrs. Fairfax made jellies in the storeroom , I climbed the three staircases , raised the trap-door of the attic , and having reached the leads , looked out afar over sequestered field and hill , and along dim sky-line -- that then I longed for a power of vision which might overpass that limit ; which might reach the busy world , towns , regions full of life I had *heard* *of* but never seen -- that then I desired more of practical experience than I possessed ; more of intercourse with my kind , of acquaintance with variety of character , than was here within my reach .
Women are supposed to be very calm generally : but women feel just as men feel ; they need exercise for their faculties , and a field for their efforts , as much as their brothers do ; they *suffer* *from* too rigid a restraint , too absolute a stagnation , precisely as men would suffer ; and it is narrow-minded in their more privileged fellow-creatures to say that they ought to confine themselves to making puddings and knitting stockings , to playing on the piano and embroidering bags .
Having seen Adele comfortably seated in her little chair by Mrs. Fairfax 's parlour fireside , and given her her best wax doll ( which I usually kept enveloped in silver paper in a drawer ) to *play* *with* , and a story-book for change of amusement ; and having replied to her `` Revenez bientot , ma bonne amie , ma chere Mdlle . Jeannette , '' with a kiss I set out .
The din was on the causeway : a horse was coming ; the windings of the lane yet hid it , but it approached . I was just leaving the stile ; yet , as the path was narrow , I sat still to let it *go* *by* .
`` I should think you ought to be at home yourself , '' said he , `` if you have a home in this neighbourhood : where do you *come* *from* ? ''
I caressed him , and he wagged his great tail ; but he looked an eerie creature to be *alone* *with* , and I could not tell whence he had come .
`` And you *came* *from* -- ? '' `` From Lowood school , in -- -shire . ''
One gleam of light lifted into relief a half-submerged mast , on which sat a cormorant , dark and large , with wings flecked with foam ; its beak held a gold bracelet set with gems , that I had *touched* *with* as brilliant tints as my palette could yield , and as glittering distinctness as my pencil could impart .
Adele , indeed , no sooner saw Mrs. Fairfax , than she summoned her to her sofa , and there quickly filled her lap with the porcelain , the ivory , the waxen contents of her `` boite ; '' pouring out , meantime , explanations and raptures in such broken English as she was *mistress* *of* .
`` I am sure , sir , I should never mistake informality for insolence : one I rather like , the other nothing free-born would *submit* *to* , even for a salary . ''
My Spring is gone , however , but it has left me that French floweret on my hands , which , in some moods , I would fain be *rid* *of* .
She was returning : of course my heart thumped with impatience against the iron rails I *leant* *upon* .
It little mattered whether my curiosity irritated him ; I knew the pleasure of vexing and soothing him by turns ; it was one I chiefly *delighted* *in* , and a sure instinct always prevented me from going too far ; beyond the verge of provocation I never ventured ; on the extreme brink I liked well to try my skill .
It does good to no woman to be flattered by her superior , who can not possibly intend to marry her ; and it is madness in all women to let a secret love kindle within them , which , if unreturned and unknown , must devour the life that feeds it ; and , if discovered and *responded* *to* , must lead , _ ignis-fatus _ -like , into miry wilds whence there is no extrication .
`` Yes , '' said Leah ; " I wish I had as good ; not that mine are to *complain* *of* , -- there 's no stinginess at Thornfield ; but they 're not one fifth of the sum Mrs. Poole receives .
Adele now petitioned to go down ; but I took her on my knee , and gave her to understand that she must not on any account think of venturing in sight of the ladies , either now or at any other time , unless expressly *sent* *for* : that Mr. Rochester would be very angry , & c .
" No , indeed , I do n't ; Mr. Rochester has something else to *think* *about* .
The crimson curtain hung before the arch : *slight* *as* was the separation this drapery formed from the party in the adjoining saloon , they spoke in so low a key that nothing of their conversation could be distinguished beyond a soothing murmur .
Lady Lynn had remarked , `` It is Mr. Rochester 's ward , I suppose -- the little French girl he was *speaking* *of* . ''
`` No , never : we might do what we pleased ; ransack her desk and her workbox , and turn her drawers inside out ; and she was so good-natured , she would give us anything we *asked* *for* . ''
It had formerly been my endeavour to study all sides of his character : to take the bad with the good ; and from the just *weighing* *of* both , to form an equitable judgment . Now I saw no bad .
They affirmed that she had even divined their thoughts , and had whispered in the ear of each the name of the person she liked best in the world , and informed them of what they most *wished* *for* .
" I do ; especially when I 've customers like you to *deal* *with* .
`` A mean nutriment for the spirit to *exist* *on* : and sitting in that window- seat ( you see I know your habits ) -- '' `` You have learned them from the servants . ''
Now , then , I must see you all back into your rooms ; for , till the house is settled , she can not be *looked* *after* .
His guest had been outraged , his own life on a former occasion had been hideously *plotted* *against* ; and both attempts he smothered in secrecy and sank in oblivion !
Old times crowded fast back on me as I watched her *bustling* *about* -- setting out the tea-tray with her best china , cutting bread and butter , toasting a tea-cake , and , between whiles , giving little Robert or Jane an occasional tap or push , just as she used to give me in former days .
The fact was , I had other things to *think* *about* ; within the last few months feelings had been stirred in me so much more potent than any they could raise -- pains and pleasures so much more acute and exquisite had been excited than any it was in their power to inflict or bestow -- that their airs gave me no concern either for good or bad .
He did not leave the stile , and I hardly liked to ask to *go* *by* .
The vehemence of emotion , stirred by grief and love within me , was claiming mastery , and struggling for full sway , and asserting a right to predominate , to overcome , to live , rise , and *reign* *at* last : yes , -- and to speak .
`` You play a farce , which I merely *laugh* *at* . ''
I do n't like to hear them *spoken* *of* .
Adele , when *lifted* *in* , commenced kissing me , by way of expressing her gratitude for my intercession : she was instantly stowed away into a corner on the other side of him .
I hated the business , I begged leave to defer it : no -- it should be *gone* *through* with now .
`` I have formed no supposition on the subject , sir ; but I want to *go* *on* as usual for another month . ''
" Oh , all he longed , all he *prayed* *for* , was that I might live with him !
In other people 's presence I was , as formerly , deferential and quiet ; any other line of conduct being *uncalled* *for* : it was only in the evening conferences I thus thwarted and afflicted him .
The wind fell , for a second , round Thornfield ; but far away over wood and water , poured a wild , melancholy wail : it was sad to *listen* *to* , and I ran off again .
There were no groomsmen , no bridesmaids , no relatives to *wait* *for* or marshal : none but Mr. Rochester and I. Mrs. Fairfax stood in the hall as we passed . I would fain have spoken to her , but my hand was held by a grasp of iron : I was hurried along by a stride I could hardly follow ; and to look at Mr. Rochester 's face was to feel that not a second of delay would be tolerated for any purpose .
The service began . The explanation of the intent of matrimony was *gone* *through* ; and then the clergyman came a step further forward , and , bending slightly towards Mr. Rochester , went on .
`` The marriage can not *go* *on* : I declare the existence of an impediment . ''
Have we anything else to *stay* *for* ? " he inquired of Mr. Mason .
I have a place to *repair* *to* , which will be a secure sanctuary from hateful reminiscences , from unwelcome intrusion -- even from falsehood and slander . "
Preconceived opinions , foregone determinations , are all I have at this hour to *stand* *by* : there I plant my foot . " I did .
I was transported *in* *thought* to the scenes of childhood : I dreamt I lay in the red-room at Gateshead ; that the night was dark , and my mind impressed with strange fears .
The last was an awful blank : something like the world when the deluge was *gone* *by* .
Oh , intolerable questions , when I could do nothing and go nowhere ! -- when a long way must yet be measured by my weary , trembling limbs before I could reach human habitation -- when cold charity must be entreated before I could get a lodging : reluctant sympathy importuned , almost certain repulse incurred , before my tale could be *listened* *to* , or one of my wants relieved !
The burden must be carried ; the want *provided* *for* ; the suffering endured ; the responsibility fulfilled .
A neighbour or two *came* *in* ; my chair was evidently wanted . I took leave .
Some say there is enjoyment in looking back to painful experience past ; but at this day I can scarcely bear to review the times to which I allude : the moral degradation , blent with the physical suffering , form too distressing a recollection ever to be willingly *dwelt* *on* .
I could not hope to get a lodging under a roof , and sought it in the wood I have before *alluded* *to* . But my night was wretched , my rest broken : the ground was damp , the air cold : besides , intruders passed near me more than once , and I had again and again to change my quarters ; no sense of safety or tranquillity befriended me .
`` *Varry* *like* : but give ower studying ; ye 've done enough for to-night . ''
He had been a bit ailing like the day before , but naught to signify ; and when Mr. St. John asked if he would like either o ' ye to be *sent* *for* , he fair laughed at him .
I waited a few moments , expecting he would *go* *on* with the subject first broached : but he seemed to have entered another train of reflection : his look denoted abstraction from me and my business .
My father , indeed , imposed the determination , but since his death , I have not a legitimate obstacle to *contend* *with* ; some affairs settled , a successor for Morton provided , an entanglement or two of the feelings *broken* *through* or cut asunder -- a last conflict with human weakness , in which I know I shall overcome , because I have vowed that I _ will _ overcome -- and I leave Europe for the East . "
It is what I have to look forward to , and to *live* *for* . "
Nothing of course to *speak* *of* -- twenty thousand pounds , I think they say -- but what is that ? "
It seemed I had found a brother : one I could be *proud* *of* , -- one I could love ; and two sisters , whose qualities were such , that , when I knew them but as mere strangers , they had inspired me with genuine affection and admiration .
I saw he was of the material from which nature hews her heroes -- Christian and Pagan -- her lawgivers , her statesmen , her conquerors : a steadfast bulwark for great interests to *rest* *upon* ; but , at the fireside , too often a cold cumbrous column , gloomy and out of place .
He gave each one quiet kiss , said in a low tone a few words of welcome , stood a while to be *talked* *to* , and then , intimating that he supposed they would soon rejoin him in the parlour , withdrew there as to a place of refuge .
They could always talk ; and their discourse , witty , pithy , original , had such charms for me , that I preferred *listening* *to* , and sharing in it , to doing anything else .
He did not abstain from conversing with me : he even called me as usual each morning to join him at his desk ; and I fear the corrupt man within him had a pleasure *unimparted* *to* , and unshared by , the pure Christian , in evincing with what skill he could , while acting and speaking apparently just as usual , extract from every deed and every phrase the spirit of interest and approval which had formerly communicated a certain austere charm to his language and manner .
Winter snows , I thought , had drifted through that void arch , winter rains *beaten* *in* at those hollow casements ; for , amidst the drenched piles of rubbish , spring had cherished vegetation : grass and weed grew here and there between the stones and fallen rafters .
Mr. Rochester now tried to *walk* *about* : vainly , -- all was too uncertain .
`` Is that what he *rang* *for* ? '' I asked .
His old dog , Pilot , lay on one side , removed out of the way , and coiled up as if afraid of being inadvertently *trodden* *upon* .
He sat in his chair -- still , but not *at* *rest* : expectant evidently ; the lines of now habitual sadness marking his strong features .
`` The case being so , we have nothing in the world to *wait* *for* : we must be married instantly . ''
First , she tried to look down and make out what she was *coming* *to* , but it was too dark to see anything ; then she looked at the sides of the well , and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves ; here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs .
Poor Alice ! It was as much as she could do , lying down on one side , to *look* *through* into the garden with one eye ; but to get through was more hopeless than ever : she sat down and began to cry again .
' I 'm sure those are not the right words , ' said poor Alice , and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on , ' I must be Mabel after all , and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house , and have next to no toys to *play* *with* , and oh ! ever so many lessons to learn !
' You are not attending ! ' said the Mouse to Alice severely . ' What are you *thinking* *of* ? '
If they had any sense , they 'd take the roof off . ' After a minute or two , they began moving about again , and Alice heard the Rabbit say , ' A barrowful will do , to *begin* *with* . '
' I 'm afraid I ca n't put it more clearly , ' Alice replied very politely , ' for I ca n't understand it myself to *begin* *with* ; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing . '
' That depends a good deal on where you want to *get* *to* , ' said the Cat .
' To *begin* *with* , ' said the Cat , ' a dog 's not mad .
However , he consented to *go* *on* . ' And so these three little sisters -- they were learning to draw , you know -- '
She was looking about for some way of escape , and wondering whether she could get away without being seen , when she noticed a curious appearance in the air : it puzzled her very much at first , but , after watching it a minute or two , she made it out to be a grin , and she said to herself ' It 's the Cheshire Cat : now I shall have somebody to *talk* *to* . '
' How are you getting on ? ' said the Cat , as soon as there was mouth enough for it to *speak* *with* .
The moment Alice appeared , she was *appealed* *to* by all three to settle the question , and they repeated their arguments to her , though , as they all spoke at once , she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said .
' It 's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is *made* *from* , ' said the Queen .
' Reeling and Writhing , of course , to *begin* *with* , ' the Mock Turtle replied ; ' and then the different branches of Arithmetic -- Ambition , Distraction , Uglification , and Derision . '
' Why , what are your shoes *done* *with* ? ' said the Gryphon . ' I mean , what makes them so shiny ? '
He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other . ' I beg pardon , your Majesty , ' he began , ' for bringing these in : but I had n't quite finished my tea when I was *sent* *for* . '
' Wake up , Alice dear ! ' said her sister ; ' Why , what a long sleep you 've had ! ' ' Oh , I 've had such a curious dream ! ' said Alice , and she told her sister , as well as she could remember them , all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just been *reading* *about* ; and when she had finished , her sister kissed her , and said ,
The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit *hurried* *by* -- the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool -- she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal , and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution -- once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess 's knee , while plates and dishes crashed around it -- once more the shriek of the Gryphon , the squeaking of the Lizard 's slate-pencil , and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs , filled the air , mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle .
`` What are you *looking* *for* ? '' asked the master .
That was what he *cared* *about* ; he wanted town misses . " And she went on -
The matter had to be *gone* *into* . The house at Dieppe was found to be eaten up with mortgages to its foundations ; what she had placed with the notary God only knew , and her share in the boat did not exceed one thousand crowns .
He could now change his meal-times , *go* *in* or out without explanation , and when he was very tired stretch himself at full length on his bed .
All the relatives of both families had been invited , quarrels between friends arranged , acquaintances long since lost sight of *written* *to* .
To *begin* *with* , at its base there was a square of blue cardboard , representing a temple with porticoes , colonnades , and stucco statuettes all round , and in the niches constellations of gilt paper stars ; then on the second stage was a dungeon of Savoy cake , surrounded by many fortifications in candied angelica , almonds , raisins , and quarters of oranges ; and finally , on the upper platform a green field with rocks set in lakes of jam , nutshell boats , and a small Cupid balancing himself in a chocolate swing whose two uprights ended in real roses for balls at the top .
By moonlight in the garden she recited all the passionate rhymes she knew by heart , and , sighing , sang to him many melancholy adagios ; but she found herself as *calm* *after* as before , and Charles seemed no more amorous and no more moved .
On Wednesday at three o 'clock , Monsieur and Madame Bovary , seated in their dog-cart , set out for Vaubyessard , with a great trunk *strapped* *on* behind and a bonnet-box in front of the apron .
She had bought herself a blotting book , writing case , pen-holder , and envelopes , although she had no one to *write* *to* ; she dusted her what-not , looked at herself in the glass , picked up a book , and then , dreaming between the lines , let it drop on her knees .
They were airs played in other places at the theatres , sung in drawing rooms , *danced* *to* at night under lighted lustres , echoes of the world that reached even to Emma .
Before us , on the verge of the horizon , lie the oaks of the forest of Argueil , with the steeps of the Saint-Jean hills scarred from top to bottom with red irregular lines ; they are rain tracks , and these brick-tones standing out in narrow streaks against the grey colour of the mountain are due to the quantity of iron springs that *flow* *beyond* in the neighboring country .
Moreover , she had the boarders ' meal to *see* *to* , and that of the doctor , his wife , and their servant ; the billiard-room was echoing with bursts of laughter ; three millers in a small parlour were calling for brandy ; the wood was blazing , the brazen pan was hissing , and on the long kitchen table , amid the quarters of raw mutton , rose piles of plates that rattled with the shaking of the block on which spinach was being chopped .
They had whistled for him a quarter of an hour ; Hivert had even gone back a mile and a half expecting every moment to catch sight of her ; but it had been necessary to *go* *on* .
One , he said had been *told* *of* , who had come back to Paris from Constantinople .
`` One thinks of nothing , '' he continued ; " the hours *slip* *by* .
`` Have you any business to *attend* *to* ? '' she asked .
Ah ! yes ! Have I not my house to *look* *after* , my husband to *attend* *to* , a thousand things , in fact , many duties that must be considered first ? "
What help is to be *hoped* *for* , what consolation , what solace ? "
The wish took possession of her to *run* *after* and rejoin him , throw herself into his arms and say to him , `` It is I ; I am yours . ''
Where the devil does she *come* *from* ?
Drowsy pigs were burrowing in the earth with their snouts , calves were bleating , lambs baaing ; the cows , on knees *folded* *in* , were stretching their bellies on the grass , slowly chewing the cud , and blinking their heavy eyelids at the gnats that buzzed round them .
One saw folk leaning on their elbows at all the windows , others standing at doors , and Justin , in front of the chemist 's shop , seemed quite transfixed by the sight of what he was *looking* *at* .
`` For , '' said he to Emma , `` what risk is there ? See - '' ( and he enumerated on his fingers the advantages of the attempt ) , `` success , almost certain relief and beautifying of the patient , celebrity acquired by the operator . Why , for example , should not your husband relieve poor Hippolyte of the ' Lion d 'Or ' ? Note that he would not fail to tell about his cure to all the travellers , and then '' ( Homais lowered his voice and looked round him ) `` who is to prevent me from sending a short paragraph on the subject to the paper ? Eh ! goodness me ! an article gets about ; it is *talked* *of* ; it ends by making a snowball ! And who knows ? who knows ? ''
How was it that she - she , who was so intelligent - could have allowed herself to be deceived again ? and through what deplorable madness had she thus ruined her life by continual sacrifices ? She recalled all her instincts of luxury , all the privations of her soul , the sordidness of marriage , of the household , her dream sinking into the mire like wounded swallows ; all that she had *longed* *for* , all that she had denied herself , all that she might have had ! And for what ? for what ?
Emma *pounced* *upon* and opened it .
It would all have to be *begun* *over* again later on .
Then she tried to calm herself ; she recalled the letter ; she must finish it ; she did not *dare* *to* . And where ?
Thus you are not ignorant of the singularly aphrodisiac effect produced by the Nepeta cataria , vulgarly called catmint , on the feline race ; and , on the other hand , to quote an example whose authenticity I can *answer* *for* .
Then , do n't you think that perhaps her imagination should be *worked* *upon* ? "
To *begin* *with* , he did not know how he could pay Monsieur Homais for all the physic supplied by him , and though , as a medical man , he was not obliged to pay for it , he nevertheless blushed a little at such an obligation .
Bills *rained* *in* upon the house ; the tradesmen grumbled ; Monsieur Lheureux especially harassed him .
Felicite forgot ; he had other things to *attend* *to* ; then thought no more about them .
This searching after faith , she thought , was only one merit the more , and in the pride of her devoutness Emma compared herself to those grand ladies of long ago whose glory she , had *dreamed* *of* over a portrait of La Valliere , and who , trailing with so much majesty the lace-trimmed trains of their long gowns , retired into solitudes to shed at the feet of Christ all the tears of hearts that life had wounded .
But they die at the hospital , because they have n't the sense when young to *lay* *by* .
Emma answered that she thought she could *do* *without* . The shopkeeper was not to be beaten .
Charles naively asked her where this paper *came* *from* .
Then he drew from his pocket a list of goods not *paid* *for* ; to wit , the curtains , the carpet , the material for the armchairs , several dresses , and divers articles of dress , the bills for which amounted to about two thousand francs .
I need *looking* *after* .
Often she even received summonses , stamped paper that she barely *looked* *at* . She would have liked not to be alive , or to be always asleep .
She could not *go* *on* ; and yet she must .
`` Ah ! '' thought Rodolphe , turning very pale , `` that was what she *came* *for* . '' At last he said with a calm air -
To *begin* *with* , it enfranchised the slaves , introduced into the world a morality - "
And as she did not *dare* *to* , he himself stepped forward , scissors in hand .
Here the young gossips , growing warm at the memory of the entrance of monsieur the legate , both began to *talk* *at* once .
So the personages on the stage took up their parts , and Gringoire hoped that the rest of his work , at least , would be *listened* *to* .
`` He speaks when he chooses , '' said the old woman ; " he *became* *deaf* through ringing the bells .
After reflecting a moment , temporarily sheltered beneath the little wicket of the prison of the treasurer of the Sainte − Chappelle , as to the shelter which he would select for the night , having all the pavements of Paris to *choose* *from* , he remembered to have noticed the week previously in the Rue de la Savaterie , at the door of a councillor of the parliament , a stepping stone for mounting a mule , and to have said to himself that that stone would furnish , on occasion , a very excellent pillow for a mendicant or a poet .
You know no other daisies ( ~ marguerites ~ ) than those which your April greensward gives your cows to *browse* *upon* ; while I , a poet , am hooted , and shiver , and owe twelve sous , and the soles of my shoes are so transparent , that they might serve as glasses for your lantern !
If you have any mummery to *go* *through* with , there 's a very good God the Father in that mortar yonder , in stone , which we stole from Saint − Pierre aux Boeufs .
`` What the deuce is she *thinking* *of* ? '' thought Gringoire , staring at what she was *gazing* *at* ; " it is impossible that it can be that stone dwarf carved in the keystone of that arch , which thus absorbs her attention .
At length the grand peal began ; the whole tower trembled ; woodwork , leads , cut stones , all *groaned* *at* once , from the piles of the foundation to the trefoils of its summit .
Here alone is the truth . `` ( As he spoke thus , he took from the top of the coffer a phial filled with the powder which we have *mentioned* *above* ) , '' here alone is light !
The judge supposed that it had been *replied* *to* , and continued , − −
There is something in their midst that they are *looking* *at* ! "
She was alone , alone in this life , fingers were pointed at her , she was *hooted* *at* in the streets , beaten by the sergeants , *jeered* *at* by the little boys in rags .
Lying , in January , in that thin , linen sack , lying on a granite floor , without fire , in the gloom of a cell whose oblique air − hole allowed only the cold breeze , but never the sun , to *enter* *from* without , she did not appear to suffer or even to think .
Nevertheless , from her dull eyes there escaped a look , an ineffable look , a profound , lugubrious , imperturbable look , incessantly fixed upon a corner of the cell which could not be *seen* *from* without ; a gaze which seemed to fix all the sombre thoughts of that soul in distress upon some mysterious object .
Her hands remained clasped ; her lips mute ; her eyes fixed ; and that little shoe , thus *gazed* *at* , broke the heart of any one who knew her history .
Meanwhile , the young girl was waiting to be *spoken* *to* , in such emotion that she dared not raise her eyelids .
All Paris lay at his feet , with the thousand spires of its edifices and its circular horizon of gentle hills − − with its river winding under its bridges , and its people *moving* *to* and fro through its streets , − − with the clouds of its smoke , − − with the mountainous chain of its roofs which presses Notre − Dame in its doubled folds ; but out .of all the city , the archdeacon gazed at one corner only of the pavement , the Place du Parvis ; in all that *throng* *at* but one figure , − − the gypsy .
`` What are you *come* *for* ? ''
`` What are you *driving* *at* ? '' he said dryly .
What was I *thinking* *of* to thrust myself into that stone gimlet which pierces the sky ; all for the sake of eating bearded cheese , and looking at the bell − towers of Paris through a hole in the wall ! "
This was what he appeared to be *waiting* *for* .
More than once my flesh had been moved as a woman 's form *passed* *by* .
Fashionable society of that day hardly knew the name of the victim who *passed* *by* at the corner of the street , and it was the populace at the most who regaled themselves with this coarse fare .
Queue − en − Brie was a very insipid place to *stay* *at* then , a village of farriers , and cow − girls with chapped hands , a long line of poor dwellings and thatched cottages , which borders the grand road on both sides for half a league ; a tail ( queue ) , in short , as its name imports .
The condemned girl remained motionless in her place , waiting to be *disposed* *of* .
When she had *passed* *on* , he began to descend the staircase again , with the slowness which he had observed in the spectre , believing himself to be a spectre too , haggard , with hair on end , his extinguished lamp still in his hand ; and as he descended the spiral steps , he distinctly heard in his ear a voice laughing and repeating , − −
Quasimodo *looked* *on* from below at this scene which was all the more pleasing to witness because it was not meant to be seen .
`` Executioner ! '' grumbled Louis XI . , `` what are you *driving* *at* ? ''
In the first place , here is what has happened . − − All this will not be *laughed* *at* .
The unhappy Esmeralda dropped her head beneath her flowing hair , comprehending that it was no human being she had to *deal* *with* .
She set her daughter ( down for she was still carrying her ) , in one corner of the cell which was not *visible* *from* without .
Gudule 's horribly compressed heart now dilated , and she said in a low voice , as she cast a glance at her daughter , whom she had not ventured to *look* *at* while they were there , `` Saved ! ''
Only at a distance , at the summit of that one of the towers of Notre − Dame which commands the Grève , two men outlined in black against the light morning sky , and who seemed to be *looking* *on* , were visible .
Quasimodo , advancing with the tread of a wolf behind him , went to see what he was *gazing* *at* thus .
But the priest was not *listening* *to* , was not *looking* *at* , anything of all this .
Thus he saw what the priest was *looking* *at* .
He was slim but firmly built , his clothes were black and close-fitting , with many folds and pockets , buckles and buttons and a belt , all of which gave the impression of being very practical but without making it very clear what they were *actually* *for* .
`` Anna should have brought me my breakfast , '' said K. He tried to work out who the man actually was , first in silence , just through observation and by thinking about it , but the man did n't stay still to be *looked* *at* for very long .
`` I want neither to stay here nor to be *spoken* *to* by you until you 've introduced yourself . '' `` I meant it for your own good , '' said the stranger and opened the door , this time without being asked .
`` She 's not *allowed* *to* , '' said the big policeman . `` You 're under arrest , are n't you . ''
`` And what do you want us to do about it ? '' replied the big policeman , loudly . " The way you 're *carrying* *on* , it 's worse than a child .
These gentlemen first accost me , and now they sit or *stand* *about* in here and let me be hauled up in front of you .
I expect you 'll want to *go* *in* to the bank now , wo n't you . "
He had no particular desire for her , he could not even remember what she *looked* *like* , but now he wanted to speak to her and it irritated him that her late arrival home meant this day would be full of unease and disorder right to its very end .
`` Sit down , '' she said , indicating the ottoman , while she herself remained standing by the bedpost despite the tiredness she had *spoken* *of* ; she did not even take off her hat , which was small but decorated with an abundance of flowers . " What is it you wanted , then ?
`` What 's too vague ? '' asked K. Then he remembered himself and asked , `` Would you like me to show you what it *was* *like* ? '' He wanted to move in some way but did not want to leave .
He had thought that he would recognise the building from a distance by some kind of sign , without knowing exactly what the sign would *look* *like* , or from some particular kind of activity outside the entrance .
It turned out , though , that that was mostly possible without further ado , as almost all the doors were left open and the children *ran* *in* and out .
`` Yes , '' said the woman , `` please *go* *on* in . ''
`` Those are the official notes of the examining judge , '' he said , and let the notebook fall down onto the desk . `` You can read in your book as much as you like , sir , I really do n't have anything in this charge book to be *afraid* *of* , even though I do n't have access to it as I would n't want it in my hand , I can only touch it with two fingers . ''
`` I 'm not trying to be a successful orator , '' said K. after this thought , " that 's probably more than I 'm *capable* *of* anyway .
`` I merely wanted to draw your attention , '' said the judge , `` to something you seem not yet to be *aware* *of* : today , you have robbed yourself of the advantages that a hearing of this sort always gives to someone who is under arrest . ''
Carry on with these people in the same way as you have been , as it does seem to me to be something you can not *do* *without* .
But even that is nothing for you to *worry* *about* when you consider that there 's nothing hanging on the outcome of this trial , and that , whatever the verdict , I will just laugh at it .
Yesterday , he sent that student to me , the one he really trusts and who he works with , he sent him with a present for me , silk stockings . He said it was because I clear up in the courtroom but that 's only a pretence , that job 's no more than what I 'm supposed to do , it 's what my husband gets *paid* *for* .
It was of course nothing to *worry* *about* , he accepted the setback only because he was looking for a fight .
So off I go running as fast as I can , shout the message through the crack in the door of the office I 've been *sent* *to* , so out of breath they 'll hardly be able to understand it , run back here again , but the student 's been even faster than I have - well he 's got less far to go , he 's only got to run down the steps .
Then the usher of the court stepped forward to him and , in order to calm him down and raise his spirits , said , " The gentleman here 's only asking what it is you 're *waiting* *for* .
In order to put an end to his discomfort , K. finally said , `` Now that I 've seen what it *looks* *like* here , I 'd like to go . ''
`` It 's nothing for you to *worry* *about* , '' she said , " that 's nothing unusual here , almost everyone gets an attack like that the first time they come here .
`` There 's nothing there for you to *worry* *about* '' said K. , crushing the remains of a sugar lump in his cup .
You know I 'd do anything for you , to some extent I am still your guardian , and until today that 's something I was *proud* *of* .
The photograph was not one that had been taken while Elsa was posing for it , it showed her just after she had been in a wild dance such as she liked to do in wine bars , her skirt was still flung out as she span round , she had placed her hands on her firm hips and , with her neck held taut , looked to one side with a laugh ; you could not see from the picture whom her laugh was *intended* *for* .
If anything about the individual charges and the reasons for them comes out clearly or can be *guessed* *at* while the accused is being questioned , then it 's possible to work out and submit documents that really direct the issue and present proof , but not before .
However , when this happens , you should never trust them too far , as however firmly they may have declared this new point of view in favour of the defendant they might well go straight back to their offices and write a report for the court that says just the opposite , and might well be even harder on the defendant than the original view , the one they insist they 've been fully *dissuaded* *from* .
But even for the junior officials , the proceedings in the courtrooms are usually kept secret , so they are hardly able to see how the cases they work with proceed , court affairs appear in their range of vision often without their knowing where they *come* *from* and they move on further without their learning where they go .
Those who were at the bottom of the steps could not believe it at first , so they sent somebody out to go and look behind the door to see if there really was no-one there , and only then did they all gather together and probably did n't even dare to complain , as it 's far from being the lawyers ' job to introduce any improvements in the court system , or even to *want* *to* .
You come home one day and find all the documents you 've submitted , which you 've worked hard to create and which you had the best hopes for , lying on the desk , they 've been sent back as they ca n't be *carried* *through* to the next stage in the trial , they 're just worthless scraps of paper .
The first set of documents to be submitted were being *worked* *on* but still not ready , which usually turned out to be a great advantage the next time K. went to see him as the earlier occasion would have been a very bad time to put them in , which they could not then have known .
The lawyer had told him , as he talked to him , that that was something *unheard* *of* and would probably do him a great deal of harm , but K. could not tolerate any impediment to his efforts where his trial was concerned , and these impediments were probably caused by the lawyer himself .
Now , in contrast , if he was to conduct his defence himself , he would have to devote himself entirely to the court - for the time being , at least - success would mean , later on , his complete and conclusive liberation , but if he was to achieve this he would have to place himself , to *start* *with* , in far greater danger than he had been in so far .
So what could K. *hope* *for* ?
But to K. , it once more seemed suspicious that the manufacturer did not want to show him the papers and saw nothing about his comments to *laugh* *at* .
But it was only the manufacturer 's comment that made K. realise what dangers that could *lead* *to* .
`` What are you so *surprised* *at* ? '' he asked , surprised in his turn . " Those are court offices .
`` I 'd be *glad* *to* , '' said the businessman .
`` And what sort of progress had you been *hoping* *for* ? '' asked K.
He explained it all to me at length , but refused to do anything I asked for , no-one has any influence on the way the trial proceeds , he said , to try and insist on it in any of the documents submitted - like I was asking - was simply *unheard* *of* and would do harm to both him and me .
And before you say anything : none of them asked for a definite date for the main trial and none of them got one , and anyway , apart form one exception which I 'll *talk* *about* in a minute , it really is impossible , that 's one thing this lawyer did n't mislead me about ; but besides , I had no reason to regret turning to other lawyers .
There 's nothing in that for me to be *ashamed* *of* . "
`` Be *glad* *to* , '' said K. , and did as the lawyer suggested ; he was always ready to learn something new .
When the lawyer started speaking Block had stopped looking at the bed but stared rather into one of the corners , just listening , as if the light from the speaker were brighter than Block could bear to *look* *at* .
And I want to be *spoken* *to* as a gentleman , especially by you .
So these were the lawyer 's methods , which K. fortunately had not been *exposed* *to* for long , to let the client forget about the whole world and leave him with nothing but the hope of reaching the end of his trial by this deluded means .
K. went over to a nearby side chapel to see what they could have *hoped* *for* , he went up a few steps to a low marble railing and leant over it to look at the altar picture by the light of his torch .
`` Then you are the one I am *looking* *for* , '' said the priest . `` I am the prison chaplain . ''
They see his ideas of what 's inside the law as rather childish , and suppose he 's afraid himself of what he wants to make the man *frightened* *of* .
Also , although he 's in the service of the law he 's only there for this one entrance , therefore he 's there only in the service of this one man who the door 's *intended* *for* .
We can take it that he 's been performing this somewhat empty service for many years , through the whole of a man 's life , as it says that a man will come , that means someone old enough to be a man . That means the doorkeeper will have to wait a long time before his function is fulfilled , he will have to *wait* *for* as long as the man liked , who came to the door of his own free will .
At the end , speaking about the entrance he says , ' Now I 'll go and close it ' , although at the beginning of the story it says the door to the law is open as it always is , but if it 's always open - always - that means it 's open independently of the lifespan of the man it 's *intended* *for* , and not even the doorkeeper will be able to close it .
Despite all the effort they *went* *to* , and despite all the co-operation shown by K. , his demeanour seemed very forced and hard to believe .
He felt a slight itch up on his belly ; pushed himself slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better ; found where the itch was , and saw that it was covered with lots of little white spots which he did n't know what to *make* *of* ; and when he tried to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder .
Despite all the difficulty he *was* *in* , he could not suppress a smile at this thought .
You barricade yourself in your room , give us no more than yes or no for an answer , you are causing serious and unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and I mention this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in a way that is quite *unheard* *of* .
That was something his parents did not understand very well ; over the years , they had become convinced that this job would provide for Gregor for his entire life , and besides , they had so much to *worry* *about* at present that they had lost sight of any thought for the future .
And without considering that he still was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present state , or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - be understood , he let go of the door ; pushed himself through the opening ; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who , ridiculously , was holding on to the banister with both hands ; but Gregor fell immediately over and , with a little scream as he sought something to *hold* *onto* , landed on his numerous little legs .
That 's to say , it was money that should not really be touched but set aside for emergencies ; money to *live* *on* had to be earned .
The uniform had not been new to *start* *with* , but as a result of this it slowly became even shabbier despite the efforts of Gregor 's mother and sister to look after it . Gregor would often spend the whole evening looking at all the stains on this coat , with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny , while the old man in it would sleep , highly uncomfortable but peaceful .
The household budget became even smaller ; so now the maid was dismissed ; an enormous , thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest work ; everything else was *looked* *after* by Gregor 's mother on top of the large amount of sewing work she did .
Gregor even learned , listening to the evening conversation about what price they had *hoped* *for* , that several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold , even though both mother and sister had been very fond of wearing them at functions and celebrations .
He could see quite well , though , that there were more reasons than consideration for him that made it difficult for them to move , it would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate with a few air holes in it ; the main thing holding the family back from their decision to move was much more to do with their total despair , and the thought that they had been struck with a misfortune unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were *related* *to* .
Other times he was not at all in the mood to look after his family , he was filled with simple rage about the lack of attention he was shown , and although he could think of nothing he would have wanted , he made plans of how he could get into the pantry where he could take all the things he was *entitled* *to* , even if he was not hungry .
Just by chance one day , rather than any real curiosity , she opened the door to Gregor 's room and found herself face to face with him . He was taken totally by surprise , no-one was chasing him but he began to *rush* *to* and fro while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in front of her .
Gregor never responded to being *spoken* *to* in that way , but just remained where he was without moving as if the door had never even been opened .
The woman most likely meant to fetch the things back out again when she had time and the opportunity , or to throw everything out in one go , but what actually happened was that they were left where they landed when they had first been thrown unless Gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere else . At first he moved it because , with no other room free where he could crawl about , he was *forced* *to* , but later on he came to enjoy it although moving about in that the way left him sad and tired to death and he would remain immobile for hours afterwards .
`` Oh yes , we 'd *love* *to* , '' called back Gregor 's father as if he had been the violin player himself .
It seemed to him that he was being shown the way to the unknown nourishment he had been *yearning* *for* .
`` Father , Mother , '' said his sister , hitting the table with her hand as introduction , " we ca n't *carry* *on* like this .
The charwoman stood in the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous good news to report , but would only do it if she was clearly *asked* *to* .
And whatever you may do or *provide* *against* , they never forget that name or their privileges unless they are disunited or dispersed , but at every chance they immediately rally to them , as Pisa after the hundred years she had been held in bondage by the Florentines .
But to come to those who , by their own ability and not through fortune , have risen to be princes , I say that Moses , Cyrus , Romulus , Theseus , and *such* *like* are the most excellent examples .
Therefore , a prince who has a strong city , and had not made himself odious , will not be attacked , or if any one should attack he will only be driven off with disgrace ; again , because that the affairs of this world are so changeable , it is almost impossible to keep an army a whole year in the field without being *interfered* *with* .
Such things Julius not only followed , but *improved* *upon* , and he intended to gain Bologna , to ruin the Venetians , and to drive the French out of Italy . All of these enterprises prospered with him , and so much the more to his credit , inasmuch as he did everything to strengthen the Church and not any private person .
And if it be urged that whoever is armed will act in the same way , whether mercenary or not , I reply that when arms have to be *resorted* *to* , either by a prince or a republic , then the prince ought to go in person and perform the duty of a captain ; the republic has to send its citizens , and when one is sent who does not turn out satisfactorily , it ought to recall him , and when one is worthy , to hold him by the laws so that he does not leave the command .
And the way to make ready one 's own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be *reflected* *upon* , and if one will consider how Philip , the father of Alexander the Great , and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves , to which rules I entirely commit myself .
And he would set forth to them , as he went , all the chances that could befall an army ; he would listen to their opinion and state his , confirming it with reasons , so that by these continual discussions there could never arise , in time of war , any unexpected circumstances that he could not *deal* *with* .
Therefore , putting on one side imaginary things concerning a prince , and discussing those which are real , I say that all men when they are *spoken* *of* , and chiefly princes for being more highly placed , are remarkable for some of those qualities which bring them either blame or praise ; and thus it is that one is reputed liberal , another miserly , using a Tuscan term ( because an avaricious person in our language is still he who desires to possess by robbery , whilst we call one miserly who deprives himself too much of the use of his own ) ; one is reputed generous , one rapacious ; one cruel , one compassionate ; one faithless , another faithful ; one effeminate and cowardly , another bold and brave ; one affable , another haughty ; one lascivious , another chaste ; one sincere , another cunning ; one hard , another easy ; one grave , another frivolous ; one religious , another unbelieving , and the like .
This will soon make him odious to his subjects , and becoming poor he will be little valued by any one ; thus , with his liberality , having offended many and rewarded few , he is affected by the very first trouble and imperilled by whatever may be the first danger ; recognizing this himself , and wishing to draw back from it , he *runs* *at* once into the reproach of being miserly .
It may be answered that one should wish to be both , but , because it is difficult to unite them in one person , it is much safer to be feared than loved , when , of the two , either must be *dispensed* *with* .
And that prince who , relying entirely on their promises , has neglected other precautions , is ruined ; because friendships that are obtained by payments , and not by greatness or nobility of mind , may indeed be earned , but they are not secured , and in time of need can not be *relied* *upon* ; and men have less scruple in offending one who is beloved than one who is feared , for love is preserved by the link of obligation which , owing to the baseness of men , is broken at every opportunity for their advantage ; but fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never fails .
For that reason , let a prince have the credit of conquering and holding his state , the means will always be considered honest , and he will be praised by everybody ; because the vulgar are always taken by what a thing seems to be and by what comes of it ; and in the world there are only the vulgar , for the few find a place there only when the many have no ground to *rest* *on* .
There is first to note that , whereas in other principalities the ambition of the nobles and the insolence of the people only have to be *contended* *with* , the Roman emperors had a third difficulty in having to put up with the cruelty and avarice of their soldiers , a matter so beset with difficulties that it was the ruin of many ; for it was a hard thing to give satisfaction both to soldiers and people ; because the people loved peace , and for this reason they loved the unaspiring prince , whilst the soldiers loved the warlike prince who was bold , cruel , and rapacious , which qualities they were quite willing he should exercise upon the people , so that they could get double pay and give vent to their own greed and cruelty .
Again , it much assists a prince to set unusual examples in internal affairs , similar to those which are related of Messer Bernabo da Milano , who , when he had the opportunity , by any one in civil life doing some extraordinary thing , either good or bad , would take some method of rewarding or punishing him , which would be much *spoken* *about* .
With these councillors , separately and collectively , he ought to carry himself in such a way that each of them should know that , the more freely he shall speak , the more he shall be preferred ; outside of these , he should listen to no one , pursue the thing *resolved* *on* , and be steadfast in his resolutions .
The windows were long , narrow , and pointed , and at so vast a distance from the black oaken floor as to be altogether *inaccessible* *from* within .
But the fervid facility of his impromptus could not be so *accounted* *for* .
' How often must I tell you to let me *know* *at* once when anyone is here ? '
Should not a new cook be *sent* *for* ? '
Has the milk been *sent* *for* ? '
He could not remember his mother , and his sister was much his senior , so that in the Shcherbatskys ' house he saw for the first time the family life of a well-educated and honourable family of the old aristocracy - a life such as he had been *deprived* *of* by the death of his own father and mother .
Listening to his brother 's conversation with the professor , he noticed that they connected the scientific question with the spiritual and several times almost reached the latter , but every time they approached this , which seemed to him the most important question , they at once hurriedly retreated and again plunged into the domain of fine sub-divisions , reservations , quotations hints and references to authorities ; and he found it difficult to understand what they were *talking* *about* .
Do you know ? ' Levin rose from his chair as if meaning to *go* *at* once .
' What , to *begin* *with* ?
We try to get our hands into a state convenient to *work* *with* , and for that purpose we cut our nails and sometimes roll up our sleeves .
Afterwards at an appointed time and place the expected proposal was *made* *to* , and accepted by , her parents .
The Russian way , of employing a professional match-maker , was considered monstrous , and was *laughed* *at* by everybody , including the Princess herself .
Only now did she realize that this matter ( with whom she would be happy , who was the man she loved ) did not concern herself alone , but that in a moment she would have to wound a man she *cared* *for* , and to wound him cruelly ...
She was right , because Levin really could not bear her and despised her for the very thing she was *proud* *of* and regarded as a merit , that is , her nervousness and refined contempt and disregard for all the rough and common things of life .
He passed in review the places he might *go* *to* .
In the depths of his heart he did not respect his mother and ( though this he never acknowledged to himself ) did not love her , but in accordance with the views of the set he *lived* *in* , and as a result of his education , he could not imagine himself treating her in any way but one altogether submissive and respectful ; the more submissive and respectful he was externally , the less he honoured and loved her in his heart .
I have turned over in my mind everything I could *think* *of* , and can find nothing . '
So now you know whom you have to *deal* *with* , and if you fear you will be degraded - there is the door . '
The hero of the novel had nearly attained to his English happiness of a baronetcy and an estate , and Anna wanted to go to the estate with him , when she suddenly felt that he must have been ashamed , and that she was ashamed of the same thing , - but what was he *ashamed* *of* ?
There was nothing to be *ashamed* *of* .
She recalled the ball and Vronsky and his humble , enamoured gaze , and their relations with one another ; there was nothing to be *ashamed* *of* .
Listening to Petritsky 's familiar tales , in the familiar surroundings of the house he had *lived* *in* for three years , Vronsky experienced the satisfaction of returning to his customary careless Petersburg life .
' We can not , as you know , determine the beginning of a tuberculous process . As long as there are no cavities there is nothing definite to *go* *by* .
' There is nothing for me to *grieve* *for* or seek comfort about .
To their surprise the lovely one stops at the door of the very house they are *going* *to* .
Petritsky ; whom Vronsky was *fond* *of* , was mixed up in the affair , and so was young Prince Kedrov , a first-rate fellow and a capital comrade , who had lately joined the regiment .
The conversation in both circles , as always happens at first , hesitated for a few minutes , was interrupted by greetings , recognitions , and offers of tea , and seemed to be seeking something to *settle* *on* .
This conversation did not flag , since it hinted at what could not be *spoken* *of* in this room , namely , at the relations existing between Tushkevich and their hostess .
' What you have just *referred* *to* was a mistake , and not love . '
' And what is most terrible of all , ' thought he , ' is that , just now , when my work is coming to completion ' ( he was thinking of the project he was then *carrying* *through* ) , ' when I need peace and all my powers of mind , just now this stupid anxiety falls on me .
But each time he began to speak with her he felt the same spirit of evil and falsehood which had taken possession of her master him also , and he neither said the things he *meant* *to* , nor spoke in the tone he had meant to adopt .
Besides this , it proved that the harrows and all the agricultural implements which he had ordered to be examined and mended in winter , for which purpose three carpenters had been specially engaged , had not been *seen* *to* , and that the harrows were now being mended when it was time to start harrowing .
You have got all you are *fond* *of* .
' I should not try to teach you the things you *scribble* *about* at your office , ' he said , ' but in case of need would come to you for advice about them , but you are firmly convinced that you understand all this forest lore .
' But whom are you *driving* *at* ?
Levin 's vehemence sincerely pleased him . ' Whom are you *driving* *at* ?
But his friends *understood* *at* once that it was not only there that he was going .
It brought on with tenfold force an attack of that strange repulsion to - he knew not whom ; but at the same time he felt that the crisis he had *hoped* *for* had now come , that concealment from the husband was no longer possible , and that somehow or other the unnatural situation must be quickly ended .
The country house the Karenins regularly occupied in summer was in Peterhof , and generally the Countess Lydia Ivanovna also *lived* *near* by and was in constant touch with Anna .
When after Makhotin and Vronsky had jumped the big barrier the officer following them fell on his head and swooned , a murmur of horror passed through the whole crowd ; but Karenin saw that Anna did not even notice the fall and with difficulty understood what those around her were *talking* *about* .
' Fürst Shcherbatsky sammt Gemahlin und Tochter , ' [ Prince Shcherbatsky with his wife and daughter . ] by the premises they occupied , by their name , and by the people they were *acquainted* *with* , at once crystallized into their definite and preordained place .
Having learnt all these particulars , the Princess saw nothing to *object* *to* in a friendship between her daughter and Varenka , especially as Varenka 's manners and education were excellent - she spoke French and English admirably , and , above all , she brought Madame Stahl 's regrets at having been deprived through illness of the pleasure of making the Princess 's acquaintance .
This was a lofty , mystical religion connected with a series of beautiful thoughts and feelings , which it was not only possible to believe because one was *told* *to* , but even to love .
QUITE TOWARD THE END OF THE SEASON Prince Shcherbatsky , who from Carlsbad had *gone* *on* to Baden and Kissingen to see some Russian friends and to ' inhale some Russian spirit , ' as he expressed it , returned to his family .
Now tell me what am I to be *pleased* *about* ?
In the morning I have to get up and *dress* *at* once and go down to the dining-room to drink bad tea .
Words seemed to detract from the beauty of what he was *looking* *at* .
' What are they *talking* *about* , and why do n't they start another swath ? ' thought Levin . It did not occur to him that the peasants , who had been mowing unceasingly for four hours , wanted their breakfast .
And while doing this he noted everything he *came* *to* : now he plucked a sorrel stalk and ate it , or offered it to Levin ; now he threw aside a branch with the point of his scythe , or examined a quail 's nest from which the hen bird had flown up , almost under the scythe ; or he caught a beetle , lifting it with the scythe-point as with a fork , and after showing it to Levin , threw it away .
Besides this she liked the idea of going to her house in the country because she intended to get her sister Kitty , who was to *return* *from* abroad at midsummer and who had been ordered bathing , to join her there .
There was nowhere to hang dresses , because what few wardrobes there were would not shut , or else opened of themselves when anyone *passed* *by* .
Often when watching her children she made great efforts to convince herself that she was mistaken , that being their mother she was not impartial ; and yet she could not help telling herself that they were charming children , all the six , each in his or her own way , all of them such as are rarely to be *met* *with* ; and she was happy in them and proud of them .
' Yes , but all that has to be *looked* *after* , and who is going to do it ? ' remarked Dolly unwillingly .
The pain she had inflicted on herself and her husband would now , she thought , be *compensated* *for* by the fact that the matter would be settled .
She had not the courage to look into the eyes of the people she *lived* *with* . She could not make up her mind to call her maid , and still less to go down and face her son and his governess .
' Yes , especially as I can not stay long . I must go to the old Countess Vrede - I *promised* *to* , ages ago , ' said Anna , to whom falsehood - so alien to her by nature - had now become so simple and natural in Society that it even gave her pleasure .
' That is the best way , ' Stremov *joined* *in* . Stremov was a man of about fifty , getting grey , but still fresh looking , with a very plain though intelligent face full of character .
He began by first attacking his money problems , as the easiest to *deal* *with* .
Their mother , who had her own private fortune , allowed Alexis about 20,000 roubles a year in addition to the 25,000 *agreed* *upon* , and Alexis spent it all .
' We will come in a minute , ' Vronsky shouted to an officer who *looked* *in* , having been sent by the C.O. to call them .
I am proud of my position because ... proud of ... proud ... ' she could not say what she was *proud* *of* .
Levin saw signs of this in the way the man was dressed - he wore an old-fashioned shiny coat which he was evidently not *used* *to* - and in his intelligent , dismal eyes , his well-turned Russian , his authoritative tone , evidently acquired by long practice , and in the firm movement of his fine large sunburnt hands , the right one having an old wedding-ring on the third finger .
' Oh yes , it is all child 's play for us : we have discovered what Europe is *looking* *for* !
' But what have they *arrived* *at* ? '
' What is it you are *looking* *at* ? ' he asked Levin , who , having stopped at the round table , was looking at one of the journals .
' I still can not understand what you are *surprised* *at* .
It was evidently all the same to him what conclusions his reasoning *led* *to* : he only needed the process itself , and he did not like it when the process of reasoning led him up a blind alley .
He remarked that he had always said so but had not been *listened* *to* .
Yes it is an aim worth *working* *for* !
' That must form a short preface , such as I formerly considered unnecessary . ' He rose to go to his writing-table , and Laska , who was lying at his feet , stretched herself , also got up , and looked round at him as if asking where she was to *go* *to* .
' I only think that the force of labour must be *dealt* *with* in a scientifically experimental manner . It must be studied and its characteristics ... '
There used to be slaves everywhere , then villeins ; and we have labour paid in kind , and leaseholders , and hired labour : so what are you *looking* *for* ? '
But no matter ! I can not hide , ' he thought ; and with the manner ; habitual to him since childhood , of one who has nothing to be *ashamed* *of* , Vronsky got out of his sledge and went to the door .
Could he talk to her and call her by her Christian name ? ' And without *meaning* *to* , she again mimicked him : ' Ma chère Anna ; my dear ! '
' Divorce , under our laws , ' he said , with a slight shade of disapproval of the laws , ' as you are aware , may be granted in the following cases ... You must wait ! ' he exclaimed , addressing his assistant who had *looked* *in* at the door ; but he rose all the same , spoke a few words to his assistant , and sat down again .
I must add that the latter case is seldom *met* *with* in practice , ' and with a momentary glance at Karenin the lawyer became suddenly silent , like a man who when selling pistols has described the advantages of the different kinds , and waits for his customer 's decision .
And the solutions *arrived* *at* were in accord with Karenin 's opinions .
' Never mind ! Tell them I will pay ! ' and nodding his head to an acquaintance who was *driving* *past* he disappeared round the corner .
That day he had two matters to *see* *to* : to interview a deputation from a subject-race which was in Moscow at that time , and give them instructions , and to write to the lawyer as he had promised .
Karenin had expected to *enter* *at* once upon the cool relation in which he would henceforth stand toward the brother of the wife against whom he was beginning divorce proceedings ; but he had not counted upon the flood of kindliness which overflowed the banks of Oblonsky 's soul .
I was *obliged* *to* ... '
To have a drink at the Chateau des Fleurs would be more in my line . ' The old Prince sat silent , his shining eyes looking askance at Karenin , and Oblonsky saw that he had already prepared some remark wherewith to polish off that dignitary of State , whom people were *invited* *to* as to a dish of sturgeon .
' Alexis Alexandrovich , forgive me , I have no *right* *to* ... but I love Anna like a sister , and respect her and I beg , I implore you to tell me what has happened between you , what do you accuse her of ? '
' I can not forgive ; I do n't *wish* *to* and do n't think it would be right .
The first contained the news that Stremov had obtained the very appointment Karenin had been *hoping* *for* . He threw down the telegram and flushed .
But what can they be *aiming* *at* ?
By his sick wife 's bedside he had for the first time in his life given rein to that feeling of tender sympathy which the suffering of others evoked in him ; and which he had till then been *ashamed* *of* , as of a weakness ; and his pity for her , remorse at having wished for her death , and above all the joy of forgiving , in itself gave him not only relief from suffering but inward peace such as he had never before experienced .
' Whom could I *speak* *to* ?
The one thing she was *longing* *for* was to get rid of his obnoxious presence .
' Yes , but under these circumstances how is an explanation to be *arrived* *at* ? ...
To him , as an agnostic who yet respected the religious beliefs of others , it was always very trying to be *present* *at* , or to take part in , any religious ceremony .
What does it matter what I *write* *about* ?
When he was alone , Levin , thinking over the remarks of the three bachelors , once more asked himself whether there was in his soul any of that regret for his freedom that they had been *speaking* *about* .
' What are you *thinking* *about* ?
She could not *think* *of* or desire anything but life with this man ; but , as that life had not yet begun , she could not even clearly picture it to herself .
When what was necessary had at length been *complied* *with* , he made the sign of the cross over them with the rings and again gave the larger one to Kitty and the little one to Levin , and again they blundered and passed the rings twice backwards and forwards without doing what was necessary .
After an absent-minded glance at the man who was still standing there watching him , he was about to *go* *in* .
But had he , and those who understood the matter in the ' right ' way , been asked what this understanding *amounted* *to* , they would have been much puzzled how to reply .
Yet Vronsky was *surprised* *at* , and sorry to see , the irritable excitement with which Golenishchev spoke on the subject that interested him .
On the one hand this memory was too terrible to *dwell* *upon* , and on the other hand her husband 's misfortune had meant for her too great a joy for repentance to be possible .
The pleasures of a bachelor 's life , enjoyed by him on his previous travels abroad , were not to be *thought* *of* now , for one attempt of that kind had produced in Anna an unexpected fit of depression quite disproportionate to the offence of a late supper with some acquaintances .
' Here we live and know nothing , ' said Vronsky one morning to Golenishchev , who had come to see him . ' Have you seen Mikhaylov 's picture ? ' and he passed his visitor a Russian newspaper that had just arrived , and pointed to an article on a Russian artist who was living in that town , and had just finished a picture long *talked* *of* and bought before completion .
Moreover , he saw that if technique were *spoken* *of* , then he could not be praised for it .
What was he *thinking* *about* ?
For a moment he felt like a man who , receiving a blow from behind , angrily and revengefully turns round to find his assailant and realizes that he has accidentally knocked himself , that there is no one to be *angry* *with* and that he must endure and try to still the pain .
' I am *afraid* *to* , ' answered Mary Nikolavna .
Had Levin now been alone with his brother Nicholas , he would have looked at him with horror , and would have *waited* *about* in still greater horror not knowing what to do next .
Not only could he not think of supper , of getting ready for the night , of considering what they were to do , he could not even talk to his wife : he was *ashamed* *to* .
' I am weak - I am *done* *for* !
He still held an important post , was member of many Commissions and Committees , but he was finished , and from him nothing further was to be *looked* *for* .
Whatever he might say , whatever he might propose , he was *listened* *to* as if all he was proposing had long been known and was what no one wanted .
But what can it *lead* *to* ?
' But I can see better without a candle what I have been *praying* *for* !
She could not share it with Vronsky and did not *wish* *to* .
GREATLY AS ANNA HAD DESIRED TO SEE HER SON , and long as she had *thought* *of* and prepared herself for the interview , she had not at all expected that it would affect her so powerfully .
Let me have them , ' she added , with a rapid movement taking from Vronsky the photos he was *looking* *at* , and glancing at him impressively with glistening eyes .
To these oases *Vronsky* *at* once turned his attention and immediately got into touch with them .
Yes , what were we *talking* *about* ? ' he concluded after a pause .
What are you *dissatisfied* *with* ? ' she said with the same smile .
I have lived many years , and now in you for the first time I have met what I was in *search* *of* .
He wished to bring her back to her first remark about her childhood ; but without *wishing* *to* , after a pause , he replied to her last words :
' What can you be *thinking* *of* , since men do not exist for me ? They do n't !
' Why , but three steps will add to its length as well ... Where will it *get* *to* ? '
The moon , which was still giving light when first he went out , now shone only like quicksilver ; the streak of dawn , previously so noticeable , now had to be *looked* *for* ; what had been vague spots on the distant field were now clearly visible .
' But I ca n't go , ' thought she . ' Where should I *go* *to* ?
' Oh , she is a horrid child ! ' she cried , addressing Levin . ' Where do these vile tendencies in her *come* *from* ? '
Well , supposing the best : that none of the other children die , and that I somehow succeed in bringing them up ; at the very best they will only escape being ne 'er-do-wells . That is all I can *hope* *for* .
The clerk , to hide his embarrassment , bustled about , helping the ladies in , but Philip became morose and made up his mind not to be *imposed* *upon* by this eternal superiority .
Feeling embarrassed , she tried to think of something to *talk* *about* .
' I do n't understand anything about horses , and shall be very *pleased* *to* , ' answered Dolly , taken rather by surprise .
She had nothing to *change* *into* as she was already wearing her best dress ; but to give some sign that she had prepared for dinner , she asked the maid to brush her dress , and she put on clean cuffs , pinned a fresh bow to her dress and placed some lace in her hair .
The price of the wire must be *allowed* *for* . ] and the German , drawn from his silence , turned to Vronsky . ' Das lässt sich ausrechnen , Erlaucht ! '
' There 's nothing to be *surprised* *at* , considering how much I hear and see of it , ' said Anna . ' And you , I 'm sure , do n't even know what houses are *made* *of* ! '
' But tell me about yourself . I have much to talk to you about and I have been *talking* *with* ...
She smiled . ' Well then , what did he *talk* *about* to you ? '
And however white and shapely her bare arms may be , however beautiful her full figure and her flushed face surrounded by that black hair - he will find others still more beautiful , as my horrid , pitiable and dear husband *looks* *for* and finds them ! '
He did not wish to ask her what they had been *talking* *about* , but hoped that she would tell him of her own accord .
Their life seemed one that could not be *improved* *upon* : they had ample means , good health , a child , and both had occupations of their own .
Levin had also some very important business to *attend* *to* in Kashin for his sister who lived abroad . It was in connection with a wardship and the receiving of money due to her for land transferred to the peasants .
In the cathedral Levin , with the others , raised his hand , repeating the words of the priest , and swore by the most awful oaths to fulfil all the things the Governor had *hoped* *for* .
The Act provided that in case of a difference of opinion the question should be *balloted* *upon* .
The leaders of both parties were making estimates and calculating on their fingers the white and black balls they could *reckon* *on* .
' As candidate for the post of Provincial Marshal , Captain Eugene Ivanich Apukhtin will now be *balloted* *for* . ' Then followed a dead silence , and a feeble voice was heard saying :
' Court Councillor Peter Petrovich Bol will now be *balloted* *for* , ' cried the voice of the man in uniform .
Levin , leaning over the balustrade , *looked* *on* and listened .
She could not think without horror of where men *drove* *to* in such cases .
Levin had forgotten the commission he had been *charged* *with* and only remembered it when on his way to the ante-room .
' You ca n't follow without it , ' said Pestsov turning to Levin , as the man he had been *talking* *to* had gone away and he had no one else to *talk* *to* .
She now has a little English girl , and a whole family she is *interested* *in* . '
To forgive , she would have to live through what I have *lived* *through* , and may God preserve her from that ! '
Levin listened to them and at the same time involuntarily thought of the past and of what had been *going* *on* before that morning , remembering himself as he had been yesterday before this event .
What is she *thinking* *about* ?
' I am hard up ; have nothing to *live* *on* . '
You understand what I am *speaking* *about* ? ' she said , lifting her beautiful dreamy eyes .
Sin does not exist for a believer ; sin has already been *atoned* *for* ...
OBLONSKY FELT COMPLETELY PUZZLED by the strange and novel language he was *listening* *to* .
But she immediately began to wonder what those two young girls could be *smiling* *at* . ' Love , probably !
' I will be *sure* *to* , ' repeated Kitty naively , looking compassionately into her eyes .
She imagined him now calmly conversing with his mother and the Princess Sorokina , and rejoicing at her sufferings . ' Yes , I must go at once , ' she thought , not yet sure where to *go* *to* .
' And the dog you *have* *with* you wo n't help you ! You ca n't escape from yourselves . '
Glancing in the direction in which Peter was looking she saw a workman , nearly dead-drunk , with his head swaying about , who was being led off somewhere by a policeman . ' That one is more *likely* *to* , ' she thought .
Now that is past . There is nothing to be *proud* *of* .
Why not put out the candle , if there is nothing more to *look* *at* ? If everything is repulsive to *look* *at* ?
The young men did not leave her in peace . Gazing into her face and laughing and shouting unnaturally they again *passed* *by* .
Among the people to whom he belonged , nothing was written or *talked* *about* at that time except the Serbian war .
' *Where* *to* ? '
' Yes , it 's particularly artillerymen they are *short* *of* , ' said Katavasov .
' As a man I have this quality , that I do not value my life at all and that I have physical energy enough to hack my way into a square and slay or fall - that I am *sure* *of* .
' You will recover , I prophesy it , ' said Koznyshev , feeling touched . ' To free one 's brothers from oppression is an aim worth both dying and *living* *for* .
And having arranged that Levin should be *sent* *for* and that the dusty visitors should be shown where to wash - one of them in Levin 's study and the other in Dolly 's former room - and about lunch for them , Kitty , exercising the right of moving quickly of which she had been deprived during pregnancy , ran up the balcony stairs .
Were they not pretending ? Or did they understand possibly in some different and clearer way than he , the answers science gives to the questions he was *concerned* *with* ?
He said we must not live for our needs - that is , we must not live for what we understand and what attracts us , what we *wish* *for* , but must live for something incomprehensible , for God whom nobody can understand or define .
I and millions of men who lived centuries ago and those who are living now : peasants , the poor in spirit , and sages , who have thought and written about it , saying the same thing in their obscure words - we all agree on that one thing : what we should *live* *for* , and what is good .
Nothing of that which constitutes the chief joys of my life would have existed for me . ' And although he made the greatest efforts of imagination , he could not picture to himself the bestial creature he would have been , had he not known what he was *living* *for* .
And they could not believe it , because they could not imagine the whole volume of all they consumed , and therefore could not conceive that what they were destroying was the very thing they *lived* *on* .
' I have long been *meaning* *to* !
Leaving his tea and regretting the interruption in the interesting conversation , yet uneasy as to why he was *sent* *for* , as this only happened on important occasions ; Levin went to the nursery .
He had besides the things before mentioned , twelve marbles , part of a jews-harp , a piece of blue bottle-glass to *look* *through* , a spool cannon , a key that would n't unlock anything , a fragment of chalk , a glass stopper of a decanter , a tin soldier , a couple of tadpoles , six fire-crackers , a kitten with only one eye , a brass door-knob , a dog-collar -- but no dog -- the handle of a knife , four pieces of orange-peel , and a dilapidated old window sash .
Then the dead were counted , prisoners exchanged , the terms of the next disagreement *agreed* *upon* , and the day for the necessary battle appointed ; after which the armies fell into line and marched away , and Tom turned homeward alone .
When a Sunday-school superintendent makes his customary little speech , a hymn-book in the hand is as necessary as is the inevitable sheet of music in the hand of a singer who stands forward on the platform and sings a solo at a concert -- though why , is a mystery : for neither the hymn-book nor the sheet of music is ever *referred* *to* by the sufferer .
The middle-aged man turned out to be a prodigious personage -- no less a one than the county judge -- altogether the most august creation these children had ever *looked* *upon* -- and they wondered what kind of material he was *made* *of* -- and they half wanted to hear him roar , and were half afraid he might , too .
It was the most stunning surprise of the decade , and so profound was the sensation that it lifted the new hero up to the judicial one 's altitude , and the school had two marvels to *gaze* *upon* in place of one .
This was lucky ; he was about to *begin* *to* groan , as a `` starter , '' as he called it , when it occurred to him that if he came into court with that argument , his aunt would pull it out , and that would hurt .
`` Say -- what is dead cats *good* *for* , Huck ? ''
" Thomas Sawyer , this is the most astounding confession I have ever *listened* *to* . No mere ferule will answer for this offence .
`` Oh , Tom ! Then I ai n't the first you 've ever been *engaged* *to* ! ''
All the old graves were *sunken* *in* , there was not a tombstone on the place ; round-topped , worm-eaten boards staggered over the graves , leaning for support and finding none .
Joe , I never *meant* *to* -- ' pon my soul and honor , I never meant to , Joe .
THE two boys *flew* *on* and on , toward the village , speechless with horror .
I reckon there ai n't no mistake ' bout where _ I 'll _ *go* *to* .
He was now become , to them , the most balefully interesting object they had ever *looked* *upon* , and they could not take their fascinated eyes from his face .
`` Nothing . Nothing 't I *know* *of* . ''
The next instant he was out , and `` going on '' like an Indian ; yelling , laughing , chasing boys , jumping over the fence at risk of life and limb , throwing handsprings , standing on his head -- doing all the heroic things he could *conceive* *of* , and keeping a furtive eye out , all the while , to see if Becky Thatcher was noticing .
They made him understand that his poor rags would do to *begin* *with* , though it was customary for wealthy pirates to start with a proper wardrobe .
They found plenty of things to be *delighted* *with* , but nothing to be *astonished* *at* .
They caught fish , cooked supper and ate it , and then fell to guessing at what the village was thinking and saying about them ; and the pictures they drew of the public distress on their account were gratifying to *look* *upon* -- from their point of view .
Go ' long home and get *laughed* *at* .
When he got to where they were , he began unfolding his secret , and they listened moodily till at last they saw the `` point '' he was *driving* *at* , and then they set up a warwhoop of applause and said it was `` splendid ! '' and said if he had told them at first , they would n't have started away .
A sweep of chilly air *passed* *by* , rustling all the leaves and snowing the flaky ashes broadcast about the fire .
However , one by one they *straggled* *in* at last and took shelter under the tent , cold , scared , and streaming with water ; but to have company in misery seemed something to be *grateful* *for* .
It was a wild night for homeless young heads to *be* *out* in .
The boys went back to camp , a good deal awed ; but they found there was still something to be *thankful* *for* , because the great sycamore , the shelter of their beds , was a ruin , now , blasted by the lightnings , and they were not under it when the catastrophe happened .
They dried their boiled ham and had a feast , and after that they sat by the fire and expanded and glorified their midnight adventure until morning , for there was not a dry spot to *sleep* *on* , anywhere around .
Then there was a dispute about who saw the dead boys last in life , and many claimed that dismal distinction , and offered evidences , more or less tampered with by the witness ; and when it was ultimately decided who _ did _ see the departed last , and exchanged the last words with them , the lucky parties took upon themselves a sort of sacred importance , and were *gaped* *at* and envied by all the rest .
`` He said -- I _ think _ he said he hoped I was better off where I was *gone* *to* , but if I 'd been better sometimes -- ''
He called himself a fool , and all the hard names he could *think* *of* .
Tom hinted at things he had to *attend* *to* ; things that must be done ; and time was fleeting .
She thrust the volume into the desk , turned the key , and burst out crying with shame and vexation . `` Tom Sawyer , you are just as mean as you can be , to sneak up on a person and look at what they 're *looking* *at* . ''
A whole hour *drifted* *by* , the master sat nodding in his throne , the air was drowsy with the hum of study .
The mayor of the village , in delivering the prize to the author of it , made a warm speech in which he said that it was by far the most `` eloquent '' thing he had ever *listened* *to* , and that Daniel Webster himself might well be proud of it .
It may be remarked , in passing , that the number of compositions in which the word `` beauteous '' was over-fondled , and human experience *referred* *to* as `` life 's page , '' was up to the usual average .
`` Then how you going to know which one to *go* *for* ? ''
" Shucks , I only meant you 'd _ see _ ' em -- not hopping , of course -- what do they want to *hop* *for* ? -- but I mean you 'd just see ' em -- scattered around , you know , in a kind of a general way .
`` Why , so as to have something to *live* *on* , by and by . ''
When they reached the haunted house there was something so weird and grisly about the dead silence that reigned there under the baking sun , and something so depressing about the loneliness and desolation of the place , that they were afraid , for a moment , to *venture* *in* .
Here -- bear a hand and we 'll see what it 's *here* *for* .
" Huck , I did n't wait to *look* *around* .
All the different ways of getting hot and tired were *gone* *through* with , and by-and-by the rovers straggled back to camp fortified with responsible appetites , and then the destruction of the good things began .
They fired a shot apiece as they started , but their bullets *whizzed* *by* and did n't do us any harm .
" Do n't say a word about it , madam . There 's another that you 're more *beholden* *to* than you are to me and my boys , maybe , but he do n't allow me to tell his name .
Those fellows war n't likely to come again -- they had n't any tools left to *work* *with* , and what was the use of waking you up and scaring you to death ?
But what could she be *crying* *about* ?
The weary time *dragged* *on* ; they slept again , and awoke famished and woe-stricken .
Tom lifted up a glorious shout , and instantly that hand was followed by the body it *belonged* *to* -- Injun Joe 's !
Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which the great rock *stood* *in* .
What do you want to be *afraid* *for* ? "
`` Shucks ! what do you want to *slope* *for* ? ''
Wherever Tom and Huck appeared they were courted , admired , *stared* *at* .
" Huck , I would n't *want* *to* , and I _ do n't _ want to -- but what would people say ? Why , they 'd say , ' Mph !
This precious vessel was now placed on my knee , and I was cordially invited to eat the circlet of delicate pastry upon it . Vain favour ! coming , like most other favours long deferred and often *wished* *for* , too late !
`` Do n't you think Gateshead Hall a very beautiful house ? '' asked he . `` Are you not very thankful to have such a fine place to *live* *at* ? ''
" Is there anything else you *wish* *for* , Jane ?
But you are rather *put* *upon* , that 's certain .
`` Ay , ay ! '' was the answer : the door was *slapped* *to* , a voice exclaimed `` All right , '' and on we drove .
I devoured my bread and drank my coffee with relish ; but I should have been *glad* *of* as much more -- I was still hungry .
I generally contrived to reserve a moiety of this bounteous repast for myself ; but the remainder I was invariably obliged to *part* *with* .
I wish the woollen stockings were better *looked* *to* ! -- when I was here last , I went into the kitchen-garden and examined the clothes drying on the line ; there was a quantity of black hose in a very bad state of repair : from the size of the holes in them I was sure they had not been well mended from time to time . "
They conversed of things I had never *heard* *of* ; of nations and times past ; of countries far away ; of secrets of nature discovered or guessed at : they spoke of books : how many they had read !
Mr. Brocklehurst and his family never came near Lowood now : household matters were not *scrutinised* *into* ; the cross housekeeper was gone , driven away by the fear of infection ; her successor , who had been matron at the Lowton Dispensary , unused to the ways of her new abode , provided with comparative liberality .
My favourite seat was a smooth and broad stone , rising white and dry from the very middle of the beck , and only to be *got* *at* by wading through the water ; a feat I accomplished barefoot .
Mary Ann remarked that she supposed some one must be very ill , as Mr. Bates had been *sent* *for* at that time of the evening .
I saw the outline of a form under the clothes , but the face was hid by the hangings : the nurse I had *spoken* *to* in the garden sat in an easy-chair asleep ; an unsnuffed candle burnt dimly on the table .
I was not reprimanded for leaving my bed ; people had something else to *think* *about* ; no explanation was afforded then to my many questions ; but a day or two afterwards I learned that Miss Temple , on returning to her own room at dawn , had found me laid in the little crib ; my face against Helen Burns 's shoulder , my arms round her neck .
The next day she laid the affair before Mr. Brocklehurst , who said that Mrs. Reed must be *written* *to* , as she was my natural guardian .
I had brushed my black stuff travelling-dress , prepared my bonnet , gloves , and muff ; sought in all my drawers to see that no article was *left* *behind* ; and now having nothing more to do , I sat down and tried to rest .
" Well , and how do they all *get* *on* ?
Well , our ship stopped in the morning , before it was quite daylight , at a great city -- a huge city , with very dark houses and all smoky ; not at all like the pretty clean town I *came* *from* ; and Mr. Rochester carried me in his arms over a plank to the land , and Sophie came after , and we all got into a coach , which took us to a beautiful large house , larger than this and finer , called an hotel .
`` Adele , '' I inquired , `` with whom did you live when you were in that pretty clean town you *spoke* *of* ? ''
`` None that I ever *heard* *of* , '' returned Mrs. Fairfax , smiling .
Anybody may blame me who likes , when I add further , that , now and then , when I took a walk by myself in the grounds ; when I went down to the gates and looked through them along the road ; or when , while Adele played with her nurse , and Mrs. Fairfax made jellies in the storeroom , I climbed the three staircases , raised the trap-door of the attic , and having reached the leads , looked out afar over sequestered field and hill , and along dim sky-line -- that then I longed for a power of vision which might overpass that limit ; which might reach the busy world , towns , regions full of life I had *heard* *of* but never seen -- that then I desired more of practical experience than I possessed ; more of intercourse with my kind , of acquaintance with variety of character , than was here within my reach .
Women are supposed to be very calm generally : but women feel just as men feel ; they need exercise for their faculties , and a field for their efforts , as much as their brothers do ; they *suffer* *from* too rigid a restraint , too absolute a stagnation , precisely as men would suffer ; and it is narrow-minded in their more privileged fellow-creatures to say that they ought to confine themselves to making puddings and knitting stockings , to playing on the piano and embroidering bags .
Having seen Adele comfortably seated in her little chair by Mrs. Fairfax 's parlour fireside , and given her her best wax doll ( which I usually kept enveloped in silver paper in a drawer ) to *play* *with* , and a story-book for change of amusement ; and having replied to her `` Revenez bientot , ma bonne amie , ma chere Mdlle . Jeannette , '' with a kiss I set out .
The din was on the causeway : a horse was coming ; the windings of the lane yet hid it , but it approached . I was just leaving the stile ; yet , as the path was narrow , I sat still to let it *go* *by* .
`` I should think you ought to be at home yourself , '' said he , `` if you have a home in this neighbourhood : where do you *come* *from* ? ''
I caressed him , and he wagged his great tail ; but he looked an eerie creature to be *alone* *with* , and I could not tell whence he had come .
`` And you *came* *from* -- ? '' `` From Lowood school , in -- -shire . ''
One gleam of light lifted into relief a half-submerged mast , on which sat a cormorant , dark and large , with wings flecked with foam ; its beak held a gold bracelet set with gems , that I had *touched* *with* as brilliant tints as my palette could yield , and as glittering distinctness as my pencil could impart .
Adele , indeed , no sooner saw Mrs. Fairfax , than she summoned her to her sofa , and there quickly filled her lap with the porcelain , the ivory , the waxen contents of her `` boite ; '' pouring out , meantime , explanations and raptures in such broken English as she was *mistress* *of* .
`` I am sure , sir , I should never mistake informality for insolence : one I rather like , the other nothing free-born would *submit* *to* , even for a salary . ''
My Spring is gone , however , but it has left me that French floweret on my hands , which , in some moods , I would fain be *rid* *of* .
She was returning : of course my heart thumped with impatience against the iron rails I *leant* *upon* .
It little mattered whether my curiosity irritated him ; I knew the pleasure of vexing and soothing him by turns ; it was one I chiefly *delighted* *in* , and a sure instinct always prevented me from going too far ; beyond the verge of provocation I never ventured ; on the extreme brink I liked well to try my skill .
It does good to no woman to be flattered by her superior , who can not possibly intend to marry her ; and it is madness in all women to let a secret love kindle within them , which , if unreturned and unknown , must devour the life that feeds it ; and , if discovered and *responded* *to* , must lead , _ ignis-fatus _ -like , into miry wilds whence there is no extrication .
`` Yes , '' said Leah ; " I wish I had as good ; not that mine are to *complain* *of* , -- there 's no stinginess at Thornfield ; but they 're not one fifth of the sum Mrs. Poole receives .
Adele now petitioned to go down ; but I took her on my knee , and gave her to understand that she must not on any account think of venturing in sight of the ladies , either now or at any other time , unless expressly *sent* *for* : that Mr. Rochester would be very angry , & c .
" No , indeed , I do n't ; Mr. Rochester has something else to *think* *about* .
The crimson curtain hung before the arch : *slight* *as* was the separation this drapery formed from the party in the adjoining saloon , they spoke in so low a key that nothing of their conversation could be distinguished beyond a soothing murmur .
Lady Lynn had remarked , `` It is Mr. Rochester 's ward , I suppose -- the little French girl he was *speaking* *of* . ''
`` No , never : we might do what we pleased ; ransack her desk and her workbox , and turn her drawers inside out ; and she was so good-natured , she would give us anything we *asked* *for* . ''
It had formerly been my endeavour to study all sides of his character : to take the bad with the good ; and from the just *weighing* *of* both , to form an equitable judgment . Now I saw no bad .
They affirmed that she had even divined their thoughts , and had whispered in the ear of each the name of the person she liked best in the world , and informed them of what they most *wished* *for* .
" I do ; especially when I 've customers like you to *deal* *with* .
`` A mean nutriment for the spirit to *exist* *on* : and sitting in that window- seat ( you see I know your habits ) -- '' `` You have learned them from the servants . ''
Now , then , I must see you all back into your rooms ; for , till the house is settled , she can not be *looked* *after* .
His guest had been outraged , his own life on a former occasion had been hideously *plotted* *against* ; and both attempts he smothered in secrecy and sank in oblivion !
Old times crowded fast back on me as I watched her *bustling* *about* -- setting out the tea-tray with her best china , cutting bread and butter , toasting a tea-cake , and , between whiles , giving little Robert or Jane an occasional tap or push , just as she used to give me in former days .
The fact was , I had other things to *think* *about* ; within the last few months feelings had been stirred in me so much more potent than any they could raise -- pains and pleasures so much more acute and exquisite had been excited than any it was in their power to inflict or bestow -- that their airs gave me no concern either for good or bad .
He did not leave the stile , and I hardly liked to ask to *go* *by* .
The vehemence of emotion , stirred by grief and love within me , was claiming mastery , and struggling for full sway , and asserting a right to predominate , to overcome , to live , rise , and *reign* *at* last : yes , -- and to speak .
`` You play a farce , which I merely *laugh* *at* . ''
I do n't like to hear them *spoken* *of* .
Adele , when *lifted* *in* , commenced kissing me , by way of expressing her gratitude for my intercession : she was instantly stowed away into a corner on the other side of him .
I hated the business , I begged leave to defer it : no -- it should be *gone* *through* with now .
`` I have formed no supposition on the subject , sir ; but I want to *go* *on* as usual for another month . ''
" Oh , all he longed , all he *prayed* *for* , was that I might live with him !
In other people 's presence I was , as formerly , deferential and quiet ; any other line of conduct being *uncalled* *for* : it was only in the evening conferences I thus thwarted and afflicted him .
The wind fell , for a second , round Thornfield ; but far away over wood and water , poured a wild , melancholy wail : it was sad to *listen* *to* , and I ran off again .
There were no groomsmen , no bridesmaids , no relatives to *wait* *for* or marshal : none but Mr. Rochester and I. Mrs. Fairfax stood in the hall as we passed . I would fain have spoken to her , but my hand was held by a grasp of iron : I was hurried along by a stride I could hardly follow ; and to look at Mr. Rochester 's face was to feel that not a second of delay would be tolerated for any purpose .
The service began . The explanation of the intent of matrimony was *gone* *through* ; and then the clergyman came a step further forward , and , bending slightly towards Mr. Rochester , went on .
`` The marriage can not *go* *on* : I declare the existence of an impediment . ''
Have we anything else to *stay* *for* ? " he inquired of Mr. Mason .
I have a place to *repair* *to* , which will be a secure sanctuary from hateful reminiscences , from unwelcome intrusion -- even from falsehood and slander . "
Preconceived opinions , foregone determinations , are all I have at this hour to *stand* *by* : there I plant my foot . " I did .
I was transported *in* *thought* to the scenes of childhood : I dreamt I lay in the red-room at Gateshead ; that the night was dark , and my mind impressed with strange fears .
The last was an awful blank : something like the world when the deluge was *gone* *by* .
Oh , intolerable questions , when I could do nothing and go nowhere ! -- when a long way must yet be measured by my weary , trembling limbs before I could reach human habitation -- when cold charity must be entreated before I could get a lodging : reluctant sympathy importuned , almost certain repulse incurred , before my tale could be *listened* *to* , or one of my wants relieved !
The burden must be carried ; the want *provided* *for* ; the suffering endured ; the responsibility fulfilled .
A neighbour or two *came* *in* ; my chair was evidently wanted . I took leave .
Some say there is enjoyment in looking back to painful experience past ; but at this day I can scarcely bear to review the times to which I allude : the moral degradation , blent with the physical suffering , form too distressing a recollection ever to be willingly *dwelt* *on* .
I could not hope to get a lodging under a roof , and sought it in the wood I have before *alluded* *to* . But my night was wretched , my rest broken : the ground was damp , the air cold : besides , intruders passed near me more than once , and I had again and again to change my quarters ; no sense of safety or tranquillity befriended me .
`` *Varry* *like* : but give ower studying ; ye 've done enough for to-night . ''
He had been a bit ailing like the day before , but naught to signify ; and when Mr. St. John asked if he would like either o ' ye to be *sent* *for* , he fair laughed at him .
I waited a few moments , expecting he would *go* *on* with the subject first broached : but he seemed to have entered another train of reflection : his look denoted abstraction from me and my business .
My father , indeed , imposed the determination , but since his death , I have not a legitimate obstacle to *contend* *with* ; some affairs settled , a successor for Morton provided , an entanglement or two of the feelings *broken* *through* or cut asunder -- a last conflict with human weakness , in which I know I shall overcome , because I have vowed that I _ will _ overcome -- and I leave Europe for the East . "
It is what I have to look forward to , and to *live* *for* . "
Nothing of course to *speak* *of* -- twenty thousand pounds , I think they say -- but what is that ? "
It seemed I had found a brother : one I could be *proud* *of* , -- one I could love ; and two sisters , whose qualities were such , that , when I knew them but as mere strangers , they had inspired me with genuine affection and admiration .
I saw he was of the material from which nature hews her heroes -- Christian and Pagan -- her lawgivers , her statesmen , her conquerors : a steadfast bulwark for great interests to *rest* *upon* ; but , at the fireside , too often a cold cumbrous column , gloomy and out of place .
He gave each one quiet kiss , said in a low tone a few words of welcome , stood a while to be *talked* *to* , and then , intimating that he supposed they would soon rejoin him in the parlour , withdrew there as to a place of refuge .
They could always talk ; and their discourse , witty , pithy , original , had such charms for me , that I preferred *listening* *to* , and sharing in it , to doing anything else .
He did not abstain from conversing with me : he even called me as usual each morning to join him at his desk ; and I fear the corrupt man within him had a pleasure *unimparted* *to* , and unshared by , the pure Christian , in evincing with what skill he could , while acting and speaking apparently just as usual , extract from every deed and every phrase the spirit of interest and approval which had formerly communicated a certain austere charm to his language and manner .
Winter snows , I thought , had drifted through that void arch , winter rains *beaten* *in* at those hollow casements ; for , amidst the drenched piles of rubbish , spring had cherished vegetation : grass and weed grew here and there between the stones and fallen rafters .
Mr. Rochester now tried to *walk* *about* : vainly , -- all was too uncertain .
`` Is that what he *rang* *for* ? '' I asked .
His old dog , Pilot , lay on one side , removed out of the way , and coiled up as if afraid of being inadvertently *trodden* *upon* .
He sat in his chair -- still , but not *at* *rest* : expectant evidently ; the lines of now habitual sadness marking his strong features .
`` The case being so , we have nothing in the world to *wait* *for* : we must be married instantly . ''
First , she tried to look down and make out what she was *coming* *to* , but it was too dark to see anything ; then she looked at the sides of the well , and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves ; here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs .
Poor Alice ! It was as much as she could do , lying down on one side , to *look* *through* into the garden with one eye ; but to get through was more hopeless than ever : she sat down and began to cry again .
' I 'm sure those are not the right words , ' said poor Alice , and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on , ' I must be Mabel after all , and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house , and have next to no toys to *play* *with* , and oh ! ever so many lessons to learn !
' You are not attending ! ' said the Mouse to Alice severely . ' What are you *thinking* *of* ? '
If they had any sense , they 'd take the roof off . ' After a minute or two , they began moving about again , and Alice heard the Rabbit say , ' A barrowful will do , to *begin* *with* . '
' I 'm afraid I ca n't put it more clearly , ' Alice replied very politely , ' for I ca n't understand it myself to *begin* *with* ; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing . '
' That depends a good deal on where you want to *get* *to* , ' said the Cat .
' To *begin* *with* , ' said the Cat , ' a dog 's not mad .
However , he consented to *go* *on* . ' And so these three little sisters -- they were learning to draw , you know -- '
She was looking about for some way of escape , and wondering whether she could get away without being seen , when she noticed a curious appearance in the air : it puzzled her very much at first , but , after watching it a minute or two , she made it out to be a grin , and she said to herself ' It 's the Cheshire Cat : now I shall have somebody to *talk* *to* . '
' How are you getting on ? ' said the Cat , as soon as there was mouth enough for it to *speak* *with* .
The moment Alice appeared , she was *appealed* *to* by all three to settle the question , and they repeated their arguments to her , though , as they all spoke at once , she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said .
' It 's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is *made* *from* , ' said the Queen .
' Reeling and Writhing , of course , to *begin* *with* , ' the Mock Turtle replied ; ' and then the different branches of Arithmetic -- Ambition , Distraction , Uglification , and Derision . '
' Why , what are your shoes *done* *with* ? ' said the Gryphon . ' I mean , what makes them so shiny ? '
He came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other . ' I beg pardon , your Majesty , ' he began , ' for bringing these in : but I had n't quite finished my tea when I was *sent* *for* . '
' Wake up , Alice dear ! ' said her sister ; ' Why , what a long sleep you 've had ! ' ' Oh , I 've had such a curious dream ! ' said Alice , and she told her sister , as well as she could remember them , all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just been *reading* *about* ; and when she had finished , her sister kissed her , and said ,
The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit *hurried* *by* -- the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool -- she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal , and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution -- once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess 's knee , while plates and dishes crashed around it -- once more the shriek of the Gryphon , the squeaking of the Lizard 's slate-pencil , and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs , filled the air , mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle .
`` What are you *looking* *for* ? '' asked the master .
That was what he *cared* *about* ; he wanted town misses . " And she went on -
The matter had to be *gone* *into* . The house at Dieppe was found to be eaten up with mortgages to its foundations ; what she had placed with the notary God only knew , and her share in the boat did not exceed one thousand crowns .
He could now change his meal-times , *go* *in* or out without explanation , and when he was very tired stretch himself at full length on his bed .
All the relatives of both families had been invited , quarrels between friends arranged , acquaintances long since lost sight of *written* *to* .
To *begin* *with* , at its base there was a square of blue cardboard , representing a temple with porticoes , colonnades , and stucco statuettes all round , and in the niches constellations of gilt paper stars ; then on the second stage was a dungeon of Savoy cake , surrounded by many fortifications in candied angelica , almonds , raisins , and quarters of oranges ; and finally , on the upper platform a green field with rocks set in lakes of jam , nutshell boats , and a small Cupid balancing himself in a chocolate swing whose two uprights ended in real roses for balls at the top .
By moonlight in the garden she recited all the passionate rhymes she knew by heart , and , sighing , sang to him many melancholy adagios ; but she found herself as *calm* *after* as before , and Charles seemed no more amorous and no more moved .
On Wednesday at three o 'clock , Monsieur and Madame Bovary , seated in their dog-cart , set out for Vaubyessard , with a great trunk *strapped* *on* behind and a bonnet-box in front of the apron .
She had bought herself a blotting book , writing case , pen-holder , and envelopes , although she had no one to *write* *to* ; she dusted her what-not , looked at herself in the glass , picked up a book , and then , dreaming between the lines , let it drop on her knees .
They were airs played in other places at the theatres , sung in drawing rooms , *danced* *to* at night under lighted lustres , echoes of the world that reached even to Emma .
Before us , on the verge of the horizon , lie the oaks of the forest of Argueil , with the steeps of the Saint-Jean hills scarred from top to bottom with red irregular lines ; they are rain tracks , and these brick-tones standing out in narrow streaks against the grey colour of the mountain are due to the quantity of iron springs that *flow* *beyond* in the neighboring country .
Moreover , she had the boarders ' meal to *see* *to* , and that of the doctor , his wife , and their servant ; the billiard-room was echoing with bursts of laughter ; three millers in a small parlour were calling for brandy ; the wood was blazing , the brazen pan was hissing , and on the long kitchen table , amid the quarters of raw mutton , rose piles of plates that rattled with the shaking of the block on which spinach was being chopped .
They had whistled for him a quarter of an hour ; Hivert had even gone back a mile and a half expecting every moment to catch sight of her ; but it had been necessary to *go* *on* .
One , he said had been *told* *of* , who had come back to Paris from Constantinople .
`` One thinks of nothing , '' he continued ; " the hours *slip* *by* .
`` Have you any business to *attend* *to* ? '' she asked .
Ah ! yes ! Have I not my house to *look* *after* , my husband to *attend* *to* , a thousand things , in fact , many duties that must be considered first ? "
What help is to be *hoped* *for* , what consolation , what solace ? "
The wish took possession of her to *run* *after* and rejoin him , throw herself into his arms and say to him , `` It is I ; I am yours . ''
Where the devil does she *come* *from* ?
Drowsy pigs were burrowing in the earth with their snouts , calves were bleating , lambs baaing ; the cows , on knees *folded* *in* , were stretching their bellies on the grass , slowly chewing the cud , and blinking their heavy eyelids at the gnats that buzzed round them .
One saw folk leaning on their elbows at all the windows , others standing at doors , and Justin , in front of the chemist 's shop , seemed quite transfixed by the sight of what he was *looking* *at* .
`` For , '' said he to Emma , `` what risk is there ? See - '' ( and he enumerated on his fingers the advantages of the attempt ) , `` success , almost certain relief and beautifying of the patient , celebrity acquired by the operator . Why , for example , should not your husband relieve poor Hippolyte of the ' Lion d 'Or ' ? Note that he would not fail to tell about his cure to all the travellers , and then '' ( Homais lowered his voice and looked round him ) `` who is to prevent me from sending a short paragraph on the subject to the paper ? Eh ! goodness me ! an article gets about ; it is *talked* *of* ; it ends by making a snowball ! And who knows ? who knows ? ''
How was it that she - she , who was so intelligent - could have allowed herself to be deceived again ? and through what deplorable madness had she thus ruined her life by continual sacrifices ? She recalled all her instincts of luxury , all the privations of her soul , the sordidness of marriage , of the household , her dream sinking into the mire like wounded swallows ; all that she had *longed* *for* , all that she had denied herself , all that she might have had ! And for what ? for what ?
Emma *pounced* *upon* and opened it .
It would all have to be *begun* *over* again later on .
Then she tried to calm herself ; she recalled the letter ; she must finish it ; she did not *dare* *to* . And where ?
Thus you are not ignorant of the singularly aphrodisiac effect produced by the Nepeta cataria , vulgarly called catmint , on the feline race ; and , on the other hand , to quote an example whose authenticity I can *answer* *for* .
Then , do n't you think that perhaps her imagination should be *worked* *upon* ? "
To *begin* *with* , he did not know how he could pay Monsieur Homais for all the physic supplied by him , and though , as a medical man , he was not obliged to pay for it , he nevertheless blushed a little at such an obligation .
Bills *rained* *in* upon the house ; the tradesmen grumbled ; Monsieur Lheureux especially harassed him .
Felicite forgot ; he had other things to *attend* *to* ; then thought no more about them .
This searching after faith , she thought , was only one merit the more , and in the pride of her devoutness Emma compared herself to those grand ladies of long ago whose glory she , had *dreamed* *of* over a portrait of La Valliere , and who , trailing with so much majesty the lace-trimmed trains of their long gowns , retired into solitudes to shed at the feet of Christ all the tears of hearts that life had wounded .
But they die at the hospital , because they have n't the sense when young to *lay* *by* .
Emma answered that she thought she could *do* *without* . The shopkeeper was not to be beaten .
Charles naively asked her where this paper *came* *from* .
Then he drew from his pocket a list of goods not *paid* *for* ; to wit , the curtains , the carpet , the material for the armchairs , several dresses , and divers articles of dress , the bills for which amounted to about two thousand francs .
I need *looking* *after* .
Often she even received summonses , stamped paper that she barely *looked* *at* . She would have liked not to be alive , or to be always asleep .
She could not *go* *on* ; and yet she must .
`` Ah ! '' thought Rodolphe , turning very pale , `` that was what she *came* *for* . '' At last he said with a calm air -
To *begin* *with* , it enfranchised the slaves , introduced into the world a morality - "
And as she did not *dare* *to* , he himself stepped forward , scissors in hand .
Here the young gossips , growing warm at the memory of the entrance of monsieur the legate , both began to *talk* *at* once .
So the personages on the stage took up their parts , and Gringoire hoped that the rest of his work , at least , would be *listened* *to* .
`` He speaks when he chooses , '' said the old woman ; " he *became* *deaf* through ringing the bells .
After reflecting a moment , temporarily sheltered beneath the little wicket of the prison of the treasurer of the Sainte − Chappelle , as to the shelter which he would select for the night , having all the pavements of Paris to *choose* *from* , he remembered to have noticed the week previously in the Rue de la Savaterie , at the door of a councillor of the parliament , a stepping stone for mounting a mule , and to have said to himself that that stone would furnish , on occasion , a very excellent pillow for a mendicant or a poet .
You know no other daisies ( ~ marguerites ~ ) than those which your April greensward gives your cows to *browse* *upon* ; while I , a poet , am hooted , and shiver , and owe twelve sous , and the soles of my shoes are so transparent , that they might serve as glasses for your lantern !
If you have any mummery to *go* *through* with , there 's a very good God the Father in that mortar yonder , in stone , which we stole from Saint − Pierre aux Boeufs .
`` What the deuce is she *thinking* *of* ? '' thought Gringoire , staring at what she was *gazing* *at* ; " it is impossible that it can be that stone dwarf carved in the keystone of that arch , which thus absorbs her attention .
At length the grand peal began ; the whole tower trembled ; woodwork , leads , cut stones , all *groaned* *at* once , from the piles of the foundation to the trefoils of its summit .
Here alone is the truth . `` ( As he spoke thus , he took from the top of the coffer a phial filled with the powder which we have *mentioned* *above* ) , '' here alone is light !
The judge supposed that it had been *replied* *to* , and continued , − −
There is something in their midst that they are *looking* *at* ! "
She was alone , alone in this life , fingers were pointed at her , she was *hooted* *at* in the streets , beaten by the sergeants , *jeered* *at* by the little boys in rags .
Lying , in January , in that thin , linen sack , lying on a granite floor , without fire , in the gloom of a cell whose oblique air − hole allowed only the cold breeze , but never the sun , to *enter* *from* without , she did not appear to suffer or even to think .
Nevertheless , from her dull eyes there escaped a look , an ineffable look , a profound , lugubrious , imperturbable look , incessantly fixed upon a corner of the cell which could not be *seen* *from* without ; a gaze which seemed to fix all the sombre thoughts of that soul in distress upon some mysterious object .
Her hands remained clasped ; her lips mute ; her eyes fixed ; and that little shoe , thus *gazed* *at* , broke the heart of any one who knew her history .
Meanwhile , the young girl was waiting to be *spoken* *to* , in such emotion that she dared not raise her eyelids .
All Paris lay at his feet , with the thousand spires of its edifices and its circular horizon of gentle hills − − with its river winding under its bridges , and its people *moving* *to* and fro through its streets , − − with the clouds of its smoke , − − with the mountainous chain of its roofs which presses Notre − Dame in its doubled folds ; but out .of all the city , the archdeacon gazed at one corner only of the pavement , the Place du Parvis ; in all that *throng* *at* but one figure , − − the gypsy .
`` What are you *come* *for* ? ''
`` What are you *driving* *at* ? '' he said dryly .
What was I *thinking* *of* to thrust myself into that stone gimlet which pierces the sky ; all for the sake of eating bearded cheese , and looking at the bell − towers of Paris through a hole in the wall ! "
This was what he appeared to be *waiting* *for* .
More than once my flesh had been moved as a woman 's form *passed* *by* .
Fashionable society of that day hardly knew the name of the victim who *passed* *by* at the corner of the street , and it was the populace at the most who regaled themselves with this coarse fare .
Queue − en − Brie was a very insipid place to *stay* *at* then , a village of farriers , and cow − girls with chapped hands , a long line of poor dwellings and thatched cottages , which borders the grand road on both sides for half a league ; a tail ( queue ) , in short , as its name imports .
The condemned girl remained motionless in her place , waiting to be *disposed* *of* .
When she had *passed* *on* , he began to descend the staircase again , with the slowness which he had observed in the spectre , believing himself to be a spectre too , haggard , with hair on end , his extinguished lamp still in his hand ; and as he descended the spiral steps , he distinctly heard in his ear a voice laughing and repeating , − −
Quasimodo *looked* *on* from below at this scene which was all the more pleasing to witness because it was not meant to be seen .
`` Executioner ! '' grumbled Louis XI . , `` what are you *driving* *at* ? ''
In the first place , here is what has happened . − − All this will not be *laughed* *at* .
The unhappy Esmeralda dropped her head beneath her flowing hair , comprehending that it was no human being she had to *deal* *with* .
She set her daughter ( down for she was still carrying her ) , in one corner of the cell which was not *visible* *from* without .
Gudule 's horribly compressed heart now dilated , and she said in a low voice , as she cast a glance at her daughter , whom she had not ventured to *look* *at* while they were there , `` Saved ! ''
Only at a distance , at the summit of that one of the towers of Notre − Dame which commands the Grève , two men outlined in black against the light morning sky , and who seemed to be *looking* *on* , were visible .
Quasimodo , advancing with the tread of a wolf behind him , went to see what he was *gazing* *at* thus .
But the priest was not *listening* *to* , was not *looking* *at* , anything of all this .
Thus he saw what the priest was *looking* *at* .
He was slim but firmly built , his clothes were black and close-fitting , with many folds and pockets , buckles and buttons and a belt , all of which gave the impression of being very practical but without making it very clear what they were *actually* *for* .
`` Anna should have brought me my breakfast , '' said K. He tried to work out who the man actually was , first in silence , just through observation and by thinking about it , but the man did n't stay still to be *looked* *at* for very long .
`` I want neither to stay here nor to be *spoken* *to* by you until you 've introduced yourself . '' `` I meant it for your own good , '' said the stranger and opened the door , this time without being asked .
`` She 's not *allowed* *to* , '' said the big policeman . `` You 're under arrest , are n't you . ''
`` And what do you want us to do about it ? '' replied the big policeman , loudly . " The way you 're *carrying* *on* , it 's worse than a child .
These gentlemen first accost me , and now they sit or *stand* *about* in here and let me be hauled up in front of you .
I expect you 'll want to *go* *in* to the bank now , wo n't you . "
He had no particular desire for her , he could not even remember what she *looked* *like* , but now he wanted to speak to her and it irritated him that her late arrival home meant this day would be full of unease and disorder right to its very end .
`` Sit down , '' she said , indicating the ottoman , while she herself remained standing by the bedpost despite the tiredness she had *spoken* *of* ; she did not even take off her hat , which was small but decorated with an abundance of flowers . " What is it you wanted , then ?
`` What 's too vague ? '' asked K. Then he remembered himself and asked , `` Would you like me to show you what it *was* *like* ? '' He wanted to move in some way but did not want to leave .
He had thought that he would recognise the building from a distance by some kind of sign , without knowing exactly what the sign would *look* *like* , or from some particular kind of activity outside the entrance .
It turned out , though , that that was mostly possible without further ado , as almost all the doors were left open and the children *ran* *in* and out .
`` Yes , '' said the woman , `` please *go* *on* in . ''
`` Those are the official notes of the examining judge , '' he said , and let the notebook fall down onto the desk . `` You can read in your book as much as you like , sir , I really do n't have anything in this charge book to be *afraid* *of* , even though I do n't have access to it as I would n't want it in my hand , I can only touch it with two fingers . ''
`` I 'm not trying to be a successful orator , '' said K. after this thought , " that 's probably more than I 'm *capable* *of* anyway .
`` I merely wanted to draw your attention , '' said the judge , `` to something you seem not yet to be *aware* *of* : today , you have robbed yourself of the advantages that a hearing of this sort always gives to someone who is under arrest . ''
Carry on with these people in the same way as you have been , as it does seem to me to be something you can not *do* *without* .
But even that is nothing for you to *worry* *about* when you consider that there 's nothing hanging on the outcome of this trial , and that , whatever the verdict , I will just laugh at it .
Yesterday , he sent that student to me , the one he really trusts and who he works with , he sent him with a present for me , silk stockings . He said it was because I clear up in the courtroom but that 's only a pretence , that job 's no more than what I 'm supposed to do , it 's what my husband gets *paid* *for* .
It was of course nothing to *worry* *about* , he accepted the setback only because he was looking for a fight .
So off I go running as fast as I can , shout the message through the crack in the door of the office I 've been *sent* *to* , so out of breath they 'll hardly be able to understand it , run back here again , but the student 's been even faster than I have - well he 's got less far to go , he 's only got to run down the steps .
Then the usher of the court stepped forward to him and , in order to calm him down and raise his spirits , said , " The gentleman here 's only asking what it is you 're *waiting* *for* .
In order to put an end to his discomfort , K. finally said , `` Now that I 've seen what it *looks* *like* here , I 'd like to go . ''
`` It 's nothing for you to *worry* *about* , '' she said , " that 's nothing unusual here , almost everyone gets an attack like that the first time they come here .
`` There 's nothing there for you to *worry* *about* '' said K. , crushing the remains of a sugar lump in his cup .
You know I 'd do anything for you , to some extent I am still your guardian , and until today that 's something I was *proud* *of* .
The photograph was not one that had been taken while Elsa was posing for it , it showed her just after she had been in a wild dance such as she liked to do in wine bars , her skirt was still flung out as she span round , she had placed her hands on her firm hips and , with her neck held taut , looked to one side with a laugh ; you could not see from the picture whom her laugh was *intended* *for* .
If anything about the individual charges and the reasons for them comes out clearly or can be *guessed* *at* while the accused is being questioned , then it 's possible to work out and submit documents that really direct the issue and present proof , but not before .
However , when this happens , you should never trust them too far , as however firmly they may have declared this new point of view in favour of the defendant they might well go straight back to their offices and write a report for the court that says just the opposite , and might well be even harder on the defendant than the original view , the one they insist they 've been fully *dissuaded* *from* .
But even for the junior officials , the proceedings in the courtrooms are usually kept secret , so they are hardly able to see how the cases they work with proceed , court affairs appear in their range of vision often without their knowing where they *come* *from* and they move on further without their learning where they go .
Those who were at the bottom of the steps could not believe it at first , so they sent somebody out to go and look behind the door to see if there really was no-one there , and only then did they all gather together and probably did n't even dare to complain , as it 's far from being the lawyers ' job to introduce any improvements in the court system , or even to *want* *to* .
You come home one day and find all the documents you 've submitted , which you 've worked hard to create and which you had the best hopes for , lying on the desk , they 've been sent back as they ca n't be *carried* *through* to the next stage in the trial , they 're just worthless scraps of paper .
The first set of documents to be submitted were being *worked* *on* but still not ready , which usually turned out to be a great advantage the next time K. went to see him as the earlier occasion would have been a very bad time to put them in , which they could not then have known .
The lawyer had told him , as he talked to him , that that was something *unheard* *of* and would probably do him a great deal of harm , but K. could not tolerate any impediment to his efforts where his trial was concerned , and these impediments were probably caused by the lawyer himself .
Now , in contrast , if he was to conduct his defence himself , he would have to devote himself entirely to the court - for the time being , at least - success would mean , later on , his complete and conclusive liberation , but if he was to achieve this he would have to place himself , to *start* *with* , in far greater danger than he had been in so far .
So what could K. *hope* *for* ?
But to K. , it once more seemed suspicious that the manufacturer did not want to show him the papers and saw nothing about his comments to *laugh* *at* .
But it was only the manufacturer 's comment that made K. realise what dangers that could *lead* *to* .
`` What are you so *surprised* *at* ? '' he asked , surprised in his turn . " Those are court offices .
`` I 'd be *glad* *to* , '' said the businessman .
`` And what sort of progress had you been *hoping* *for* ? '' asked K.
He explained it all to me at length , but refused to do anything I asked for , no-one has any influence on the way the trial proceeds , he said , to try and insist on it in any of the documents submitted - like I was asking - was simply *unheard* *of* and would do harm to both him and me .
And before you say anything : none of them asked for a definite date for the main trial and none of them got one , and anyway , apart form one exception which I 'll *talk* *about* in a minute , it really is impossible , that 's one thing this lawyer did n't mislead me about ; but besides , I had no reason to regret turning to other lawyers .
There 's nothing in that for me to be *ashamed* *of* . "
`` Be *glad* *to* , '' said K. , and did as the lawyer suggested ; he was always ready to learn something new .
When the lawyer started speaking Block had stopped looking at the bed but stared rather into one of the corners , just listening , as if the light from the speaker were brighter than Block could bear to *look* *at* .
And I want to be *spoken* *to* as a gentleman , especially by you .
So these were the lawyer 's methods , which K. fortunately had not been *exposed* *to* for long , to let the client forget about the whole world and leave him with nothing but the hope of reaching the end of his trial by this deluded means .
K. went over to a nearby side chapel to see what they could have *hoped* *for* , he went up a few steps to a low marble railing and leant over it to look at the altar picture by the light of his torch .
`` Then you are the one I am *looking* *for* , '' said the priest . `` I am the prison chaplain . ''
They see his ideas of what 's inside the law as rather childish , and suppose he 's afraid himself of what he wants to make the man *frightened* *of* .
Also , although he 's in the service of the law he 's only there for this one entrance , therefore he 's there only in the service of this one man who the door 's *intended* *for* .
We can take it that he 's been performing this somewhat empty service for many years , through the whole of a man 's life , as it says that a man will come , that means someone old enough to be a man . That means the doorkeeper will have to wait a long time before his function is fulfilled , he will have to *wait* *for* as long as the man liked , who came to the door of his own free will .
At the end , speaking about the entrance he says , ' Now I 'll go and close it ' , although at the beginning of the story it says the door to the law is open as it always is , but if it 's always open - always - that means it 's open independently of the lifespan of the man it 's *intended* *for* , and not even the doorkeeper will be able to close it .
Despite all the effort they *went* *to* , and despite all the co-operation shown by K. , his demeanour seemed very forced and hard to believe .
He felt a slight itch up on his belly ; pushed himself slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better ; found where the itch was , and saw that it was covered with lots of little white spots which he did n't know what to *make* *of* ; and when he tried to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder .
Despite all the difficulty he *was* *in* , he could not suppress a smile at this thought .
You barricade yourself in your room , give us no more than yes or no for an answer , you are causing serious and unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and I mention this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in a way that is quite *unheard* *of* .
That was something his parents did not understand very well ; over the years , they had become convinced that this job would provide for Gregor for his entire life , and besides , they had so much to *worry* *about* at present that they had lost sight of any thought for the future .
And without considering that he still was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present state , or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - be understood , he let go of the door ; pushed himself through the opening ; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who , ridiculously , was holding on to the banister with both hands ; but Gregor fell immediately over and , with a little scream as he sought something to *hold* *onto* , landed on his numerous little legs .
That 's to say , it was money that should not really be touched but set aside for emergencies ; money to *live* *on* had to be earned .
The uniform had not been new to *start* *with* , but as a result of this it slowly became even shabbier despite the efforts of Gregor 's mother and sister to look after it . Gregor would often spend the whole evening looking at all the stains on this coat , with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny , while the old man in it would sleep , highly uncomfortable but peaceful .
The household budget became even smaller ; so now the maid was dismissed ; an enormous , thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest work ; everything else was *looked* *after* by Gregor 's mother on top of the large amount of sewing work she did .
Gregor even learned , listening to the evening conversation about what price they had *hoped* *for* , that several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold , even though both mother and sister had been very fond of wearing them at functions and celebrations .
He could see quite well , though , that there were more reasons than consideration for him that made it difficult for them to move , it would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate with a few air holes in it ; the main thing holding the family back from their decision to move was much more to do with their total despair , and the thought that they had been struck with a misfortune unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were *related* *to* .
Other times he was not at all in the mood to look after his family , he was filled with simple rage about the lack of attention he was shown , and although he could think of nothing he would have wanted , he made plans of how he could get into the pantry where he could take all the things he was *entitled* *to* , even if he was not hungry .
Just by chance one day , rather than any real curiosity , she opened the door to Gregor 's room and found herself face to face with him . He was taken totally by surprise , no-one was chasing him but he began to *rush* *to* and fro while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in front of her .
Gregor never responded to being *spoken* *to* in that way , but just remained where he was without moving as if the door had never even been opened .
The woman most likely meant to fetch the things back out again when she had time and the opportunity , or to throw everything out in one go , but what actually happened was that they were left where they landed when they had first been thrown unless Gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere else . At first he moved it because , with no other room free where he could crawl about , he was *forced* *to* , but later on he came to enjoy it although moving about in that the way left him sad and tired to death and he would remain immobile for hours afterwards .
`` Oh yes , we 'd *love* *to* , '' called back Gregor 's father as if he had been the violin player himself .
It seemed to him that he was being shown the way to the unknown nourishment he had been *yearning* *for* .
`` Father , Mother , '' said his sister , hitting the table with her hand as introduction , " we ca n't *carry* *on* like this .
The charwoman stood in the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous good news to report , but would only do it if she was clearly *asked* *to* .
And whatever you may do or *provide* *against* , they never forget that name or their privileges unless they are disunited or dispersed , but at every chance they immediately rally to them , as Pisa after the hundred years she had been held in bondage by the Florentines .
But to come to those who , by their own ability and not through fortune , have risen to be princes , I say that Moses , Cyrus , Romulus , Theseus , and *such* *like* are the most excellent examples .
Therefore , a prince who has a strong city , and had not made himself odious , will not be attacked , or if any one should attack he will only be driven off with disgrace ; again , because that the affairs of this world are so changeable , it is almost impossible to keep an army a whole year in the field without being *interfered* *with* .
Such things Julius not only followed , but *improved* *upon* , and he intended to gain Bologna , to ruin the Venetians , and to drive the French out of Italy . All of these enterprises prospered with him , and so much the more to his credit , inasmuch as he did everything to strengthen the Church and not any private person .
And if it be urged that whoever is armed will act in the same way , whether mercenary or not , I reply that when arms have to be *resorted* *to* , either by a prince or a republic , then the prince ought to go in person and perform the duty of a captain ; the republic has to send its citizens , and when one is sent who does not turn out satisfactorily , it ought to recall him , and when one is worthy , to hold him by the laws so that he does not leave the command .
And the way to make ready one 's own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be *reflected* *upon* , and if one will consider how Philip , the father of Alexander the Great , and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves , to which rules I entirely commit myself .
And he would set forth to them , as he went , all the chances that could befall an army ; he would listen to their opinion and state his , confirming it with reasons , so that by these continual discussions there could never arise , in time of war , any unexpected circumstances that he could not *deal* *with* .
Therefore , putting on one side imaginary things concerning a prince , and discussing those which are real , I say that all men when they are *spoken* *of* , and chiefly princes for being more highly placed , are remarkable for some of those qualities which bring them either blame or praise ; and thus it is that one is reputed liberal , another miserly , using a Tuscan term ( because an avaricious person in our language is still he who desires to possess by robbery , whilst we call one miserly who deprives himself too much of the use of his own ) ; one is reputed generous , one rapacious ; one cruel , one compassionate ; one faithless , another faithful ; one effeminate and cowardly , another bold and brave ; one affable , another haughty ; one lascivious , another chaste ; one sincere , another cunning ; one hard , another easy ; one grave , another frivolous ; one religious , another unbelieving , and the like .
This will soon make him odious to his subjects , and becoming poor he will be little valued by any one ; thus , with his liberality , having offended many and rewarded few , he is affected by the very first trouble and imperilled by whatever may be the first danger ; recognizing this himself , and wishing to draw back from it , he *runs* *at* once into the reproach of being miserly .
It may be answered that one should wish to be both , but , because it is difficult to unite them in one person , it is much safer to be feared than loved , when , of the two , either must be *dispensed* *with* .
And that prince who , relying entirely on their promises , has neglected other precautions , is ruined ; because friendships that are obtained by payments , and not by greatness or nobility of mind , may indeed be earned , but they are not secured , and in time of need can not be *relied* *upon* ; and men have less scruple in offending one who is beloved than one who is feared , for love is preserved by the link of obligation which , owing to the baseness of men , is broken at every opportunity for their advantage ; but fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never fails .
For that reason , let a prince have the credit of conquering and holding his state , the means will always be considered honest , and he will be praised by everybody ; because the vulgar are always taken by what a thing seems to be and by what comes of it ; and in the world there are only the vulgar , for the few find a place there only when the many have no ground to *rest* *on* .
There is first to note that , whereas in other principalities the ambition of the nobles and the insolence of the people only have to be *contended* *with* , the Roman emperors had a third difficulty in having to put up with the cruelty and avarice of their soldiers , a matter so beset with difficulties that it was the ruin of many ; for it was a hard thing to give satisfaction both to soldiers and people ; because the people loved peace , and for this reason they loved the unaspiring prince , whilst the soldiers loved the warlike prince who was bold , cruel , and rapacious , which qualities they were quite willing he should exercise upon the people , so that they could get double pay and give vent to their own greed and cruelty .
Again , it much assists a prince to set unusual examples in internal affairs , similar to those which are related of Messer Bernabo da Milano , who , when he had the opportunity , by any one in civil life doing some extraordinary thing , either good or bad , would take some method of rewarding or punishing him , which would be much *spoken* *about* .
With these councillors , separately and collectively , he ought to carry himself in such a way that each of them should know that , the more freely he shall speak , the more he shall be preferred ; outside of these , he should listen to no one , pursue the thing *resolved* *on* , and be steadfast in his resolutions .
The windows were long , narrow , and pointed , and at so vast a distance from the black oaken floor as to be altogether *inaccessible* *from* within .
But the fervid facility of his impromptus could not be so *accounted* *for* .
' How often must I tell you to let me *know* *at* once when anyone is here ? '
Should not a new cook be *sent* *for* ? '
Has the milk been *sent* *for* ? '
He could not remember his mother , and his sister was much his senior , so that in the Shcherbatskys ' house he saw for the first time the family life of a well-educated and honourable family of the old aristocracy - a life such as he had been *deprived* *of* by the death of his own father and mother .
Listening to his brother 's conversation with the professor , he noticed that they connected the scientific question with the spiritual and several times almost reached the latter , but every time they approached this , which seemed to him the most important question , they at once hurriedly retreated and again plunged into the domain of fine sub-divisions , reservations , quotations hints and references to authorities ; and he found it difficult to understand what they were *talking* *about* .
Do you know ? ' Levin rose from his chair as if meaning to *go* *at* once .
' What , to *begin* *with* ?
We try to get our hands into a state convenient to *work* *with* , and for that purpose we cut our nails and sometimes roll up our sleeves .
Afterwards at an appointed time and place the expected proposal was *made* *to* , and accepted by , her parents .
The Russian way , of employing a professional match-maker , was considered monstrous , and was *laughed* *at* by everybody , including the Princess herself .
Only now did she realize that this matter ( with whom she would be happy , who was the man she loved ) did not concern herself alone , but that in a moment she would have to wound a man she *cared* *for* , and to wound him cruelly ...
She was right , because Levin really could not bear her and despised her for the very thing she was *proud* *of* and regarded as a merit , that is , her nervousness and refined contempt and disregard for all the rough and common things of life .
He passed in review the places he might *go* *to* .
In the depths of his heart he did not respect his mother and ( though this he never acknowledged to himself ) did not love her , but in accordance with the views of the set he *lived* *in* , and as a result of his education , he could not imagine himself treating her in any way but one altogether submissive and respectful ; the more submissive and respectful he was externally , the less he honoured and loved her in his heart .
I have turned over in my mind everything I could *think* *of* , and can find nothing . '
So now you know whom you have to *deal* *with* , and if you fear you will be degraded - there is the door . '
The hero of the novel had nearly attained to his English happiness of a baronetcy and an estate , and Anna wanted to go to the estate with him , when she suddenly felt that he must have been ashamed , and that she was ashamed of the same thing , - but what was he *ashamed* *of* ?
There was nothing to be *ashamed* *of* .
She recalled the ball and Vronsky and his humble , enamoured gaze , and their relations with one another ; there was nothing to be *ashamed* *of* .
Listening to Petritsky 's familiar tales , in the familiar surroundings of the house he had *lived* *in* for three years , Vronsky experienced the satisfaction of returning to his customary careless Petersburg life .
' We can not , as you know , determine the beginning of a tuberculous process . As long as there are no cavities there is nothing definite to *go* *by* .
' There is nothing for me to *grieve* *for* or seek comfort about .
To their surprise the lovely one stops at the door of the very house they are *going* *to* .
Petritsky ; whom Vronsky was *fond* *of* , was mixed up in the affair , and so was young Prince Kedrov , a first-rate fellow and a capital comrade , who had lately joined the regiment .
The conversation in both circles , as always happens at first , hesitated for a few minutes , was interrupted by greetings , recognitions , and offers of tea , and seemed to be seeking something to *settle* *on* .
This conversation did not flag , since it hinted at what could not be *spoken* *of* in this room , namely , at the relations existing between Tushkevich and their hostess .
' What you have just *referred* *to* was a mistake , and not love . '
' And what is most terrible of all , ' thought he , ' is that , just now , when my work is coming to completion ' ( he was thinking of the project he was then *carrying* *through* ) , ' when I need peace and all my powers of mind , just now this stupid anxiety falls on me .
But each time he began to speak with her he felt the same spirit of evil and falsehood which had taken possession of her master him also , and he neither said the things he *meant* *to* , nor spoke in the tone he had meant to adopt .
Besides this , it proved that the harrows and all the agricultural implements which he had ordered to be examined and mended in winter , for which purpose three carpenters had been specially engaged , had not been *seen* *to* , and that the harrows were now being mended when it was time to start harrowing .
You have got all you are *fond* *of* .
' I should not try to teach you the things you *scribble* *about* at your office , ' he said , ' but in case of need would come to you for advice about them , but you are firmly convinced that you understand all this forest lore .
' But whom are you *driving* *at* ?
Levin 's vehemence sincerely pleased him . ' Whom are you *driving* *at* ?
But his friends *understood* *at* once that it was not only there that he was going .
It brought on with tenfold force an attack of that strange repulsion to - he knew not whom ; but at the same time he felt that the crisis he had *hoped* *for* had now come , that concealment from the husband was no longer possible , and that somehow or other the unnatural situation must be quickly ended .
The country house the Karenins regularly occupied in summer was in Peterhof , and generally the Countess Lydia Ivanovna also *lived* *near* by and was in constant touch with Anna .
When after Makhotin and Vronsky had jumped the big barrier the officer following them fell on his head and swooned , a murmur of horror passed through the whole crowd ; but Karenin saw that Anna did not even notice the fall and with difficulty understood what those around her were *talking* *about* .
' Fürst Shcherbatsky sammt Gemahlin und Tochter , ' [ Prince Shcherbatsky with his wife and daughter . ] by the premises they occupied , by their name , and by the people they were *acquainted* *with* , at once crystallized into their definite and preordained place .
Having learnt all these particulars , the Princess saw nothing to *object* *to* in a friendship between her daughter and Varenka , especially as Varenka 's manners and education were excellent - she spoke French and English admirably , and , above all , she brought Madame Stahl 's regrets at having been deprived through illness of the pleasure of making the Princess 's acquaintance .
This was a lofty , mystical religion connected with a series of beautiful thoughts and feelings , which it was not only possible to believe because one was *told* *to* , but even to love .
QUITE TOWARD THE END OF THE SEASON Prince Shcherbatsky , who from Carlsbad had *gone* *on* to Baden and Kissingen to see some Russian friends and to ' inhale some Russian spirit , ' as he expressed it , returned to his family .
Now tell me what am I to be *pleased* *about* ?
In the morning I have to get up and *dress* *at* once and go down to the dining-room to drink bad tea .
Words seemed to detract from the beauty of what he was *looking* *at* .
' What are they *talking* *about* , and why do n't they start another swath ? ' thought Levin . It did not occur to him that the peasants , who had been mowing unceasingly for four hours , wanted their breakfast .
And while doing this he noted everything he *came* *to* : now he plucked a sorrel stalk and ate it , or offered it to Levin ; now he threw aside a branch with the point of his scythe , or examined a quail 's nest from which the hen bird had flown up , almost under the scythe ; or he caught a beetle , lifting it with the scythe-point as with a fork , and after showing it to Levin , threw it away .
Besides this she liked the idea of going to her house in the country because she intended to get her sister Kitty , who was to *return* *from* abroad at midsummer and who had been ordered bathing , to join her there .
There was nowhere to hang dresses , because what few wardrobes there were would not shut , or else opened of themselves when anyone *passed* *by* .
Often when watching her children she made great efforts to convince herself that she was mistaken , that being their mother she was not impartial ; and yet she could not help telling herself that they were charming children , all the six , each in his or her own way , all of them such as are rarely to be *met* *with* ; and she was happy in them and proud of them .
' Yes , but all that has to be *looked* *after* , and who is going to do it ? ' remarked Dolly unwillingly .
The pain she had inflicted on herself and her husband would now , she thought , be *compensated* *for* by the fact that the matter would be settled .
She had not the courage to look into the eyes of the people she *lived* *with* . She could not make up her mind to call her maid , and still less to go down and face her son and his governess .
' Yes , especially as I can not stay long . I must go to the old Countess Vrede - I *promised* *to* , ages ago , ' said Anna , to whom falsehood - so alien to her by nature - had now become so simple and natural in Society that it even gave her pleasure .
' That is the best way , ' Stremov *joined* *in* . Stremov was a man of about fifty , getting grey , but still fresh looking , with a very plain though intelligent face full of character .
He began by first attacking his money problems , as the easiest to *deal* *with* .
Their mother , who had her own private fortune , allowed Alexis about 20,000 roubles a year in addition to the 25,000 *agreed* *upon* , and Alexis spent it all .
' We will come in a minute , ' Vronsky shouted to an officer who *looked* *in* , having been sent by the C.O. to call them .
I am proud of my position because ... proud of ... proud ... ' she could not say what she was *proud* *of* .
Levin saw signs of this in the way the man was dressed - he wore an old-fashioned shiny coat which he was evidently not *used* *to* - and in his intelligent , dismal eyes , his well-turned Russian , his authoritative tone , evidently acquired by long practice , and in the firm movement of his fine large sunburnt hands , the right one having an old wedding-ring on the third finger .
' Oh yes , it is all child 's play for us : we have discovered what Europe is *looking* *for* !
' But what have they *arrived* *at* ? '
' What is it you are *looking* *at* ? ' he asked Levin , who , having stopped at the round table , was looking at one of the journals .
' I still can not understand what you are *surprised* *at* .
It was evidently all the same to him what conclusions his reasoning *led* *to* : he only needed the process itself , and he did not like it when the process of reasoning led him up a blind alley .
He remarked that he had always said so but had not been *listened* *to* .
Yes it is an aim worth *working* *for* !
' That must form a short preface , such as I formerly considered unnecessary . ' He rose to go to his writing-table , and Laska , who was lying at his feet , stretched herself , also got up , and looked round at him as if asking where she was to *go* *to* .
' I only think that the force of labour must be *dealt* *with* in a scientifically experimental manner . It must be studied and its characteristics ... '
There used to be slaves everywhere , then villeins ; and we have labour paid in kind , and leaseholders , and hired labour : so what are you *looking* *for* ? '
But no matter ! I can not hide , ' he thought ; and with the manner ; habitual to him since childhood , of one who has nothing to be *ashamed* *of* , Vronsky got out of his sledge and went to the door .
Could he talk to her and call her by her Christian name ? ' And without *meaning* *to* , she again mimicked him : ' Ma chère Anna ; my dear ! '
' Divorce , under our laws , ' he said , with a slight shade of disapproval of the laws , ' as you are aware , may be granted in the following cases ... You must wait ! ' he exclaimed , addressing his assistant who had *looked* *in* at the door ; but he rose all the same , spoke a few words to his assistant , and sat down again .
I must add that the latter case is seldom *met* *with* in practice , ' and with a momentary glance at Karenin the lawyer became suddenly silent , like a man who when selling pistols has described the advantages of the different kinds , and waits for his customer 's decision .
And the solutions *arrived* *at* were in accord with Karenin 's opinions .
' Never mind ! Tell them I will pay ! ' and nodding his head to an acquaintance who was *driving* *past* he disappeared round the corner .
That day he had two matters to *see* *to* : to interview a deputation from a subject-race which was in Moscow at that time , and give them instructions , and to write to the lawyer as he had promised .
Karenin had expected to *enter* *at* once upon the cool relation in which he would henceforth stand toward the brother of the wife against whom he was beginning divorce proceedings ; but he had not counted upon the flood of kindliness which overflowed the banks of Oblonsky 's soul .
I was *obliged* *to* ... '
To have a drink at the Chateau des Fleurs would be more in my line . ' The old Prince sat silent , his shining eyes looking askance at Karenin , and Oblonsky saw that he had already prepared some remark wherewith to polish off that dignitary of State , whom people were *invited* *to* as to a dish of sturgeon .
' Alexis Alexandrovich , forgive me , I have no *right* *to* ... but I love Anna like a sister , and respect her and I beg , I implore you to tell me what has happened between you , what do you accuse her of ? '
' I can not forgive ; I do n't *wish* *to* and do n't think it would be right .
The first contained the news that Stremov had obtained the very appointment Karenin had been *hoping* *for* . He threw down the telegram and flushed .
But what can they be *aiming* *at* ?
By his sick wife 's bedside he had for the first time in his life given rein to that feeling of tender sympathy which the suffering of others evoked in him ; and which he had till then been *ashamed* *of* , as of a weakness ; and his pity for her , remorse at having wished for her death , and above all the joy of forgiving , in itself gave him not only relief from suffering but inward peace such as he had never before experienced .
' Whom could I *speak* *to* ?
The one thing she was *longing* *for* was to get rid of his obnoxious presence .
' Yes , but under these circumstances how is an explanation to be *arrived* *at* ? ...
To him , as an agnostic who yet respected the religious beliefs of others , it was always very trying to be *present* *at* , or to take part in , any religious ceremony .
What does it matter what I *write* *about* ?
When he was alone , Levin , thinking over the remarks of the three bachelors , once more asked himself whether there was in his soul any of that regret for his freedom that they had been *speaking* *about* .
' What are you *thinking* *about* ?
She could not *think* *of* or desire anything but life with this man ; but , as that life had not yet begun , she could not even clearly picture it to herself .
When what was necessary had at length been *complied* *with* , he made the sign of the cross over them with the rings and again gave the larger one to Kitty and the little one to Levin , and again they blundered and passed the rings twice backwards and forwards without doing what was necessary .
After an absent-minded glance at the man who was still standing there watching him , he was about to *go* *in* .
But had he , and those who understood the matter in the ' right ' way , been asked what this understanding *amounted* *to* , they would have been much puzzled how to reply .
Yet Vronsky was *surprised* *at* , and sorry to see , the irritable excitement with which Golenishchev spoke on the subject that interested him .
On the one hand this memory was too terrible to *dwell* *upon* , and on the other hand her husband 's misfortune had meant for her too great a joy for repentance to be possible .
The pleasures of a bachelor 's life , enjoyed by him on his previous travels abroad , were not to be *thought* *of* now , for one attempt of that kind had produced in Anna an unexpected fit of depression quite disproportionate to the offence of a late supper with some acquaintances .
' Here we live and know nothing , ' said Vronsky one morning to Golenishchev , who had come to see him . ' Have you seen Mikhaylov 's picture ? ' and he passed his visitor a Russian newspaper that had just arrived , and pointed to an article on a Russian artist who was living in that town , and had just finished a picture long *talked* *of* and bought before completion .
Moreover , he saw that if technique were *spoken* *of* , then he could not be praised for it .
What was he *thinking* *about* ?
For a moment he felt like a man who , receiving a blow from behind , angrily and revengefully turns round to find his assailant and realizes that he has accidentally knocked himself , that there is no one to be *angry* *with* and that he must endure and try to still the pain .
' I am *afraid* *to* , ' answered Mary Nikolavna .
Had Levin now been alone with his brother Nicholas , he would have looked at him with horror , and would have *waited* *about* in still greater horror not knowing what to do next .
Not only could he not think of supper , of getting ready for the night , of considering what they were to do , he could not even talk to his wife : he was *ashamed* *to* .
' I am weak - I am *done* *for* !
He still held an important post , was member of many Commissions and Committees , but he was finished , and from him nothing further was to be *looked* *for* .
Whatever he might say , whatever he might propose , he was *listened* *to* as if all he was proposing had long been known and was what no one wanted .
But what can it *lead* *to* ?
' But I can see better without a candle what I have been *praying* *for* !
She could not share it with Vronsky and did not *wish* *to* .
GREATLY AS ANNA HAD DESIRED TO SEE HER SON , and long as she had *thought* *of* and prepared herself for the interview , she had not at all expected that it would affect her so powerfully .
Let me have them , ' she added , with a rapid movement taking from Vronsky the photos he was *looking* *at* , and glancing at him impressively with glistening eyes .
To these oases *Vronsky* *at* once turned his attention and immediately got into touch with them .
Yes , what were we *talking* *about* ? ' he concluded after a pause .
What are you *dissatisfied* *with* ? ' she said with the same smile .
I have lived many years , and now in you for the first time I have met what I was in *search* *of* .
He wished to bring her back to her first remark about her childhood ; but without *wishing* *to* , after a pause , he replied to her last words :
' What can you be *thinking* *of* , since men do not exist for me ? They do n't !
' Why , but three steps will add to its length as well ... Where will it *get* *to* ? '
The moon , which was still giving light when first he went out , now shone only like quicksilver ; the streak of dawn , previously so noticeable , now had to be *looked* *for* ; what had been vague spots on the distant field were now clearly visible .
' But I ca n't go , ' thought she . ' Where should I *go* *to* ?
' Oh , she is a horrid child ! ' she cried , addressing Levin . ' Where do these vile tendencies in her *come* *from* ? '
Well , supposing the best : that none of the other children die , and that I somehow succeed in bringing them up ; at the very best they will only escape being ne 'er-do-wells . That is all I can *hope* *for* .
The clerk , to hide his embarrassment , bustled about , helping the ladies in , but Philip became morose and made up his mind not to be *imposed* *upon* by this eternal superiority .
Feeling embarrassed , she tried to think of something to *talk* *about* .
' I do n't understand anything about horses , and shall be very *pleased* *to* , ' answered Dolly , taken rather by surprise .
She had nothing to *change* *into* as she was already wearing her best dress ; but to give some sign that she had prepared for dinner , she asked the maid to brush her dress , and she put on clean cuffs , pinned a fresh bow to her dress and placed some lace in her hair .
The price of the wire must be *allowed* *for* . ] and the German , drawn from his silence , turned to Vronsky . ' Das lässt sich ausrechnen , Erlaucht ! '
' There 's nothing to be *surprised* *at* , considering how much I hear and see of it , ' said Anna . ' And you , I 'm sure , do n't even know what houses are *made* *of* ! '
' But tell me about yourself . I have much to talk to you about and I have been *talking* *with* ...
She smiled . ' Well then , what did he *talk* *about* to you ? '
And however white and shapely her bare arms may be , however beautiful her full figure and her flushed face surrounded by that black hair - he will find others still more beautiful , as my horrid , pitiable and dear husband *looks* *for* and finds them ! '
He did not wish to ask her what they had been *talking* *about* , but hoped that she would tell him of her own accord .
Their life seemed one that could not be *improved* *upon* : they had ample means , good health , a child , and both had occupations of their own .
Levin had also some very important business to *attend* *to* in Kashin for his sister who lived abroad . It was in connection with a wardship and the receiving of money due to her for land transferred to the peasants .
In the cathedral Levin , with the others , raised his hand , repeating the words of the priest , and swore by the most awful oaths to fulfil all the things the Governor had *hoped* *for* .
The Act provided that in case of a difference of opinion the question should be *balloted* *upon* .
The leaders of both parties were making estimates and calculating on their fingers the white and black balls they could *reckon* *on* .
' As candidate for the post of Provincial Marshal , Captain Eugene Ivanich Apukhtin will now be *balloted* *for* . ' Then followed a dead silence , and a feeble voice was heard saying :
' Court Councillor Peter Petrovich Bol will now be *balloted* *for* , ' cried the voice of the man in uniform .
Levin , leaning over the balustrade , *looked* *on* and listened .
She could not think without horror of where men *drove* *to* in such cases .
Levin had forgotten the commission he had been *charged* *with* and only remembered it when on his way to the ante-room .
' You ca n't follow without it , ' said Pestsov turning to Levin , as the man he had been *talking* *to* had gone away and he had no one else to *talk* *to* .
She now has a little English girl , and a whole family she is *interested* *in* . '
To forgive , she would have to live through what I have *lived* *through* , and may God preserve her from that ! '
Levin listened to them and at the same time involuntarily thought of the past and of what had been *going* *on* before that morning , remembering himself as he had been yesterday before this event .
What is she *thinking* *about* ?
' I am hard up ; have nothing to *live* *on* . '
You understand what I am *speaking* *about* ? ' she said , lifting her beautiful dreamy eyes .
Sin does not exist for a believer ; sin has already been *atoned* *for* ...
OBLONSKY FELT COMPLETELY PUZZLED by the strange and novel language he was *listening* *to* .
But she immediately began to wonder what those two young girls could be *smiling* *at* . ' Love , probably !
' I will be *sure* *to* , ' repeated Kitty naively , looking compassionately into her eyes .
She imagined him now calmly conversing with his mother and the Princess Sorokina , and rejoicing at her sufferings . ' Yes , I must go at once , ' she thought , not yet sure where to *go* *to* .
' And the dog you *have* *with* you wo n't help you ! You ca n't escape from yourselves . '
Glancing in the direction in which Peter was looking she saw a workman , nearly dead-drunk , with his head swaying about , who was being led off somewhere by a policeman . ' That one is more *likely* *to* , ' she thought .
Now that is past . There is nothing to be *proud* *of* .
Why not put out the candle , if there is nothing more to *look* *at* ? If everything is repulsive to *look* *at* ?
The young men did not leave her in peace . Gazing into her face and laughing and shouting unnaturally they again *passed* *by* .
Among the people to whom he belonged , nothing was written or *talked* *about* at that time except the Serbian war .
' *Where* *to* ? '
' Yes , it 's particularly artillerymen they are *short* *of* , ' said Katavasov .
' As a man I have this quality , that I do not value my life at all and that I have physical energy enough to hack my way into a square and slay or fall - that I am *sure* *of* .
' You will recover , I prophesy it , ' said Koznyshev , feeling touched . ' To free one 's brothers from oppression is an aim worth both dying and *living* *for* .
And having arranged that Levin should be *sent* *for* and that the dusty visitors should be shown where to wash - one of them in Levin 's study and the other in Dolly 's former room - and about lunch for them , Kitty , exercising the right of moving quickly of which she had been deprived during pregnancy , ran up the balcony stairs .
Were they not pretending ? Or did they understand possibly in some different and clearer way than he , the answers science gives to the questions he was *concerned* *with* ?
He said we must not live for our needs - that is , we must not live for what we understand and what attracts us , what we *wish* *for* , but must live for something incomprehensible , for God whom nobody can understand or define .
I and millions of men who lived centuries ago and those who are living now : peasants , the poor in spirit , and sages , who have thought and written about it , saying the same thing in their obscure words - we all agree on that one thing : what we should *live* *for* , and what is good .
Nothing of that which constitutes the chief joys of my life would have existed for me . ' And although he made the greatest efforts of imagination , he could not picture to himself the bestial creature he would have been , had he not known what he was *living* *for* .
And they could not believe it , because they could not imagine the whole volume of all they consumed , and therefore could not conceive that what they were destroying was the very thing they *lived* *on* .
' I have long been *meaning* *to* !
Leaving his tea and regretting the interruption in the interesting conversation , yet uneasy as to why he was *sent* *for* , as this only happened on important occasions ; Levin went to the nursery .
He had besides the things before mentioned , twelve marbles , part of a jews-harp , a piece of blue bottle-glass to *look* *through* , a spool cannon , a key that would n't unlock anything , a fragment of chalk , a glass stopper of a decanter , a tin soldier , a couple of tadpoles , six fire-crackers , a kitten with only one eye , a brass door-knob , a dog-collar -- but no dog -- the handle of a knife , four pieces of orange-peel , and a dilapidated old window sash .
Then the dead were counted , prisoners exchanged , the terms of the next disagreement *agreed* *upon* , and the day for the necessary battle appointed ; after which the armies fell into line and marched away , and Tom turned homeward alone .
When a Sunday-school superintendent makes his customary little speech , a hymn-book in the hand is as necessary as is the inevitable sheet of music in the hand of a singer who stands forward on the platform and sings a solo at a concert -- though why , is a mystery : for neither the hymn-book nor the sheet of music is ever *referred* *to* by the sufferer .
The middle-aged man turned out to be a prodigious personage -- no less a one than the county judge -- altogether the most august creation these children had ever *looked* *upon* -- and they wondered what kind of material he was *made* *of* -- and they half wanted to hear him roar , and were half afraid he might , too .
It was the most stunning surprise of the decade , and so profound was the sensation that it lifted the new hero up to the judicial one 's altitude , and the school had two marvels to *gaze* *upon* in place of one .
This was lucky ; he was about to *begin* *to* groan , as a `` starter , '' as he called it , when it occurred to him that if he came into court with that argument , his aunt would pull it out , and that would hurt .
`` Say -- what is dead cats *good* *for* , Huck ? ''
" Thomas Sawyer , this is the most astounding confession I have ever *listened* *to* . No mere ferule will answer for this offence .
`` Oh , Tom ! Then I ai n't the first you 've ever been *engaged* *to* ! ''
All the old graves were *sunken* *in* , there was not a tombstone on the place ; round-topped , worm-eaten boards staggered over the graves , leaning for support and finding none .
Joe , I never *meant* *to* -- ' pon my soul and honor , I never meant to , Joe .
THE two boys *flew* *on* and on , toward the village , speechless with horror .
I reckon there ai n't no mistake ' bout where _ I 'll _ *go* *to* .
He was now become , to them , the most balefully interesting object they had ever *looked* *upon* , and they could not take their fascinated eyes from his face .
`` Nothing . Nothing 't I *know* *of* . ''
The next instant he was out , and `` going on '' like an Indian ; yelling , laughing , chasing boys , jumping over the fence at risk of life and limb , throwing handsprings , standing on his head -- doing all the heroic things he could *conceive* *of* , and keeping a furtive eye out , all the while , to see if Becky Thatcher was noticing .
They made him understand that his poor rags would do to *begin* *with* , though it was customary for wealthy pirates to start with a proper wardrobe .
They found plenty of things to be *delighted* *with* , but nothing to be *astonished* *at* .
They caught fish , cooked supper and ate it , and then fell to guessing at what the village was thinking and saying about them ; and the pictures they drew of the public distress on their account were gratifying to *look* *upon* -- from their point of view .
Go ' long home and get *laughed* *at* .
When he got to where they were , he began unfolding his secret , and they listened moodily till at last they saw the `` point '' he was *driving* *at* , and then they set up a warwhoop of applause and said it was `` splendid ! '' and said if he had told them at first , they would n't have started away .
A sweep of chilly air *passed* *by* , rustling all the leaves and snowing the flaky ashes broadcast about the fire .
However , one by one they *straggled* *in* at last and took shelter under the tent , cold , scared , and streaming with water ; but to have company in misery seemed something to be *grateful* *for* .
It was a wild night for homeless young heads to *be* *out* in .
The boys went back to camp , a good deal awed ; but they found there was still something to be *thankful* *for* , because the great sycamore , the shelter of their beds , was a ruin , now , blasted by the lightnings , and they were not under it when the catastrophe happened .
They dried their boiled ham and had a feast , and after that they sat by the fire and expanded and glorified their midnight adventure until morning , for there was not a dry spot to *sleep* *on* , anywhere around .
Then there was a dispute about who saw the dead boys last in life , and many claimed that dismal distinction , and offered evidences , more or less tampered with by the witness ; and when it was ultimately decided who _ did _ see the departed last , and exchanged the last words with them , the lucky parties took upon themselves a sort of sacred importance , and were *gaped* *at* and envied by all the rest .
`` He said -- I _ think _ he said he hoped I was better off where I was *gone* *to* , but if I 'd been better sometimes -- ''
He called himself a fool , and all the hard names he could *think* *of* .
Tom hinted at things he had to *attend* *to* ; things that must be done ; and time was fleeting .
She thrust the volume into the desk , turned the key , and burst out crying with shame and vexation . `` Tom Sawyer , you are just as mean as you can be , to sneak up on a person and look at what they 're *looking* *at* . ''
A whole hour *drifted* *by* , the master sat nodding in his throne , the air was drowsy with the hum of study .
The mayor of the village , in delivering the prize to the author of it , made a warm speech in which he said that it was by far the most `` eloquent '' thing he had ever *listened* *to* , and that Daniel Webster himself might well be proud of it .
It may be remarked , in passing , that the number of compositions in which the word `` beauteous '' was over-fondled , and human experience *referred* *to* as `` life 's page , '' was up to the usual average .
`` Then how you going to know which one to *go* *for* ? ''
" Shucks , I only meant you 'd _ see _ ' em -- not hopping , of course -- what do they want to *hop* *for* ? -- but I mean you 'd just see ' em -- scattered around , you know , in a kind of a general way .
`` Why , so as to have something to *live* *on* , by and by . ''
When they reached the haunted house there was something so weird and grisly about the dead silence that reigned there under the baking sun , and something so depressing about the loneliness and desolation of the place , that they were afraid , for a moment , to *venture* *in* .
Here -- bear a hand and we 'll see what it 's *here* *for* .
" Huck , I did n't wait to *look* *around* .
All the different ways of getting hot and tired were *gone* *through* with , and by-and-by the rovers straggled back to camp fortified with responsible appetites , and then the destruction of the good things began .
They fired a shot apiece as they started , but their bullets *whizzed* *by* and did n't do us any harm .
" Do n't say a word about it , madam . There 's another that you 're more *beholden* *to* than you are to me and my boys , maybe , but he do n't allow me to tell his name .
Those fellows war n't likely to come again -- they had n't any tools left to *work* *with* , and what was the use of waking you up and scaring you to death ?
But what could she be *crying* *about* ?
The weary time *dragged* *on* ; they slept again , and awoke famished and woe-stricken .
Tom lifted up a glorious shout , and instantly that hand was followed by the body it *belonged* *to* -- Injun Joe 's !
Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which the great rock *stood* *in* .
What do you want to be *afraid* *for* ? "
`` Shucks ! what do you want to *slope* *for* ? ''
Wherever Tom and Huck appeared they were courted , admired , *stared* *at* .
" Huck , I would n't *want* *to* , and I _ do n't _ want to -- but what would people say ? Why , they 'd say , ' Mph !
