 Georgiana , when not unburdening her heart to me , spent most of her time in lying on the sofa , fretting about the dulness of the house , and wishing over and over again that her aunt Gibson would send her an invitation up to town .
 The wedding is to take place quietly , in the church down below yonder ; and then I shall waft you away at once to town .
 `` At any rate , it makes us no worse off than we were before , '' remarked Mary .
 `` If you wo n't let me live with you , I can build a house of my own close up to your door , and you may come and sit in my parlour when you want company of an evening . ''
 Hardly knowing what she did , she picked up a little bit of stick , and held it out to the puppy ; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once , with a yelp of delight , and rushed at the stick , and made believe to worry it ; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle , to keep herself from being run over ; and the moment she appeared on the other side , the puppy made another rush at the stick , and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it ; then Alice , thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse , and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet , ran round the thistle again ; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick , running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back , and barking hoarsely all the while , till at last it sat down a good way off , panting , with its tongue hanging out of its mouth , and its great eyes half shut .
 He could not keep from constantly touching her comb , her ring , her fichu ; sometimes he gave her great sounding kisses with all his mouth on her cheeks , or else little kisses in a row all along her bare arm from the tip of her fingers up to her shoulder , and she put him away half-smiling , half-vexed , as you do a child who hangs about you .
 As he grew older his manner grew heavier ; at dessert he cut the corks of the empty bottles ; after eating he cleaned his teeth with his tongue ; in taking soup he made a gurgling noise with every spoonful ; and , as he was getting fatter , the puffed-out cheeks seemed to push the eyes , always small , up to the temples .
 `` Now who can trouble you , since in six months you 'll draw the arrears for your cottage , and I do n't make the last bill due till after you 've been paid ? ''
 And Leon suddenly appeared to her as far off as the others .
 And , without listening to the chemist , who was still venturing the hypothesis , `` It is perhaps a salutary paroxysm , '' Canivet was about to administer some theriac , when they heard the cracking of a whip ; all the windows rattled , and a post-chaise drawn by three horses abreast , up to their ears in mud , drove at a gallop round the corner of the market . It was Doctor Lariviere .
 Around the hall , along the lofty wall , between the doors , between the windows , between the pillars , the interminable row of all the kings of France , from Pharamond down : the lazy kings , with pendent arms and downcast eyes ; the valiant and combative kings , with heads and arms raised boldly heavenward .
 He walked up and down the free space in the room a couple of times , across the street he could see the old woman who , now , had pulled an old man , much older than herself , up to the window and had her arms around him .
 The next moment she would certainly go into her room , where K. ought not to intrude in the middle of the night ; that meant he would have to speak to her now , but , unfortunately , he had not put the electric light on in his room so that when he stepped out of the dark it would give the impression of being an attack and would certainly , at the very least , have been quite alarming .
 Wait here till I 've put the light on in my room , and then turn the light down out here . "
 `` Everything is so dirty here , '' said K. , shaking his head , and before he could pick the books up the woman wiped some of the dust off with her apron .
 K. ran the few steps up to him , but when he had reached him and was about to take hold of him and , if necessary , throttle him , the woman said ,
 `` Nothing that I know of , '' said the usher . `` And it 's going to get even worse now , up till now he 's only been carrying her off for himself , now he 's started carrying her off for the judge and all , just like I 'd always said he would . ''
 If that had been his intention then it would almost have been easier , K. would have taken his own clothes off and offered himself to the whip-man in the policemen 's place .
 In the end , they agreed that they would try to tire the old man out .
 So K. turned the collar of his coat up and buttoned it up high under his chin . Just then the deputy director came out of the adjoining room , smiled as he saw K. negotiating with the gentlemen in his winter coat , and asked , `` Are you about to go out ? ''
 The good intentions he had had earlier , though , seemed to have left him completely , it was the Italian who had caused him all this effort and sometimes he became so angry with him that he buried the dictionary under some papers firmly intending to do no more preparation , but then he realised he could not walk up and down in the cathedral with the Italian without saying a word , so , with in an even greater rage , he pulled the dictionary back out again .
 Here they released their hold on K. , who just waited in silence , and took their top hats off while they looked round the quarry and wiped the sweat off their brows with their handkerchiefs .
 Would his sister have to go and earn money ? She was still a child of seventeen , her life up till then had been very enviable , consisting of wearing nice clothes , sleeping late , helping out in the business , joining in with a few modest pleasures and most of all playing the violin .
 One day , in order to spare her even this sight , he spent four hours carrying the bedsheet over to the couch on his back and arranged it so that he was completely covered and his sister would not be able to see him even if she bent down .
 Two of his colleagues - Nikitin , an old hard-working official , and Grinevich , a Gentleman of the Bedchamber - followed him out .
 Invite all the young puppies , ' so the Prince called the Moscow young men , ' have a pianist and let them dance ; but do n't have the sort of thing we had to-night - these suitors and this pairing off .
 The wind seemed only to have waited for her : it whistled merrily and tried to seize and carry her off , but she held on to the cold door-post and held down her shawl , then stepping on to the platform she moved away from the carriage .
 But have a wash and smarten yourself up , ' said the Baroness , again sitting down and carefully turning a small screw of the coffee-pot . ' Pierre , pass me the coffee , ' she said to Petritsky whom , not concealing their relations , she called Pierre ( the French for Peter ) , because of his surname .
 Chirikov gaily and good-naturedly backed up every one else .
 ' There you are ! ' said Sergius Ivanich . ' Good-bye to bear-hunting in future !
 The terrible screaming did not cease , but grew yet more awful until , as if it had reached the utmost limit of horror , it suddenly ceased .
 It was the most stunning surprise of the decade , and so profound was the sensation that it lifted the new hero up to the judicial one 's altitude , and the school had two marvels to gaze upon in place of one .
 " Send the r 'yals up !
 " I do n't like to stir ' em up , either .
 `` By George , he _ has _ got something to tell , or he would n't act so ! '' exclaimed the old man ; `` out with it and nobody here 'll ever tell , lad . ''
 We 've got it now , and we 'll keep it quiet , only we 'll let Joe Harper and Ben Rogers in -- because of course there 's got to be a Gang , or else there would n't be any style about it . Tom Sawyer 's Gang -- it sounds splendid , do n't it , Huck ? "
