 I returned to my book -- Bewick 's History of British Birds : the letterpress thereof I cared little for , generally speaking ; and yet there were certain introductory pages that , child as I was , I could not pass quite as a blank .
 Nor could I pass unnoticed the suggestion of the bleak shores of Lapland , Siberia , Spitzbergen , Nova Zembla , Iceland , Greenland , with `` the vast sweep of the Arctic Zone , and those forlorn regions of dreary space , -- that reservoir of frost and snow , where firm fields of ice , the accumulation of centuries of winters , glazed in Alpine heights above heights , surround the pole , and concentre the multiplied rigours of extreme cold . ''
 When thus gentle , Bessie seemed to me the best , prettiest , kindest being in the world ; and I wished most intensely that she would always be so pleasant and amiable , and never push me about , or scold , or task me unreasonably , as she was too often wont to do .
 The handle turned , the door unclosed , and passing through and curtseying low , I looked up at -- a black pillar ! -- such , at least , appeared to me , at first sight , the straight , narrow , sable-clad shape standing erect on the rug : the grim face at the top was like a carved mask , placed above the shaft by way of capital .
 `` I will send her , then , as soon as possible , Mr. Brocklehurst ; for , I assure you , I feel anxious to be relieved of a responsibility that was becoming too irksome . ''
 I leant against a pillar of the verandah , drew my grey mantle close about me , and , trying to forget the cold which nipped me without , and the unsatisfied hunger which gnawed me within , delivered myself up to the employment of watching and thinking .
 `` Madam , '' he pursued , `` I have a Master to serve whose kingdom is not of this world : my mission is to mortify in these girls the lusts of the flesh ; to teach them to clothe themselves with shame-facedness and sobriety , not with braided hair and costly apparel ; and each of the young persons before us has a string of hair twisted in plaits which vanity itself might have woven ; these , I repeat , must be cut off ; think of the time wasted , of -- '' Mr. Brocklehurst was here interrupted : three other visitors , ladies , now entered the room .
 Now came a pause of ten minutes , during which I , by this time in perfect possession of my wits , observed all the female Brocklehursts produce their pocket-handkerchiefs and apply them to their optics , while the elderly lady swayed herself to and fro , and the two younger ones whispered , `` How shocking ! ''
 Already I had made visible progress : that very morning I had reached the head of my class ; Miss Miller had praised me warmly ; Miss Temple had smiled approbation ; she had promised to teach me drawing , and to let me learn French , if I continued to make similar improvement two months longer : and then I was well received by my fellow-pupils ; treated as an equal by those of my own age , and not molested by any ; now , here I lay again crushed and trodden on ; and could I ever rise more ?
 They conversed of things I had never heard of ; of nations and times past ; of countries far away ; of secrets of nature discovered or guessed at : they spoke of books : how many they had read !
 You think all existence lapses in as quiet a flow as that in which your youth has hitherto slid away .
 Lord Ingram flirted with Amy Eshton ; Louisa played and sang to and with one of the Messrs. Lynn ; and Mary Ingram listened languidly to the gallant speeches of the other .
 But I liked his physiognomy even less than before : it struck me as being at the same time unsettled and inanimate .
 In short , I believe you have been trying to draw me out -- or in ; you have been talking nonsense to make me talk nonsense .
 It was by this time half-past five , and the sun was on the point of rising ; but I found the kitchen still dark and silent . The side-passage door was fastened ; I opened it with as little noise as possible : all the yard was quiet ; but the gates stood wide open , and there was a post-chaise , with horses ready harnessed , and driver seated on the box , stationed outside .
 `` Let her be taken care of ; let her be treated as tenderly as may be : let her -- '' he stopped and burst into tears .
 Adele , as you say , must go to school ; and you , of course , must march straight to -- the devil ? "
 It had heretofore been my habit always to shrink from arrogance : received as I had been to-day , I should , a year ago , have resolved to quit Gateshead the very next morning ; now , it was disclosed to me all at once that that would be a foolish plan .
 Instead of living for , in , and with yourself , as a reasonable being ought , you seek only to fasten your feebleness on some other person 's strength : if no one can be found willing to burden her or himself with such a fat , weak , puffy , useless thing , you cry out that you are ill-treated , neglected , miserable .
 I had made no noise : he had not eyes behind -- could his shadow feel ?
 `` Yes , sir , I will advertise immediately : and meantime , I suppose -- '' I was going to say , `` I suppose I may stay here , till I find another shelter to betake myself to : '' but I stopped , feeling it would not do to risk a long sentence , for my voice was not quite under command .
 I think I shall like you again , and yet again : and I will make you confess I do not only _ like _ , but _ love _ you -- with truth , fervour , constancy . "
 " I said this whilst I knelt down at , and unlocked a trunk which contained a brace of loaded pistols : I mean to shoot myself .
 You may take the maniac with you to England ; confine her with due attendance and precautions at Thornfield : then travel yourself to what clime you will , and form what new tie you like .
 Now and then , in passing a casement , you glanced out at the thick-falling snow ; you listened to the sobbing wind , and again you paced gently on and dreamed .
 The aperture was so screened and narrow , that curtain or shutter had been deemed unnecessary ; and when I stooped down and put aside the spray of foliage shooting over it , I could see all within .
 Here the honest but inflexible servant clapped the door to and bolted it within .
 `` Whatever can not ye keep yourself for , then ? ''
 I know all your sisters have done for me since -- for I have not been insensible during my seeming torpor -- and I owe to their spontaneous , genuine , genial compassion as large a debt as to your evangelical charity . "
 The rapidity of their progress , in some instances , was even surprising ; and an honest and happy pride I took in it : besides , I began personally to like some of the best girls ; and they liked me .
 It is what I have to look forward to , and to live for . "
 When all was finished , I thought Moor House as complete a model of bright modest snugness within , as it was , at this season , a specimen of wintry waste and desert dreariness without .
 As I looked at his lofty forehead , still and pale as a white stone -- at his fine lineaments fixed in study -- I comprehended all at once that he would hardly make a good husband : that it would be a trying thing to be his wife .
 How long it had been searching me through and through , and over and over , I can not tell : so keen was it , and yet so cold , I felt for the moment superstitious -- as if I were sitting in the room with something uncanny .
 A fresh wrong did these words inflict : the worse , because they touched on the truth .
 I mounted to my chamber ; locked myself in ; fell on my knees ; and prayed in my way -- a different way to St. John 's , but effective in its own fashion . I seemed to penetrate very near a Mighty Spirit ; and my soul rushed out in gratitude at His feet .
 I recalled the voice I had heard ; again I questioned whence it came , as vainly as before : it seemed in _ me _ -- not in the external world .
 " I 'm coming to that , ma 'am -- that Mr. Edward fell in love with .
 Do cats eat bats ? ' and sometimes , ' Do bats eat cats ? ' for , you see , as she could n't answer either question , it did n't much matter which way she put it .
 ' I wo n't indeed ! ' said Alice , in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation . ' Are you -- are you fond -- of -- of dogs ? '
 Where did they draw the treacle from ? '
 So you see , Miss , we 're doing our best , afore she comes , to -- ' At this moment Five , who had been anxiously looking across the garden , called out ' The Queen ! The Queen ! ' and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces .
 The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo : she succeeded in getting its body tucked away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with its legs hanging down , but generally , just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out , and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head , it would twist itself round and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing : and when she had got its head down , and was going to begin again , it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself , and was in the act of crawling away : besides all this , there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to , and , as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground , Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed .
 The executioner 's argument was , that you could n't cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from : that he had never had to do such a thing before , and he was n't going to begin at his time of life .
 Soup does very well without -- Maybe it 's always pepper that makes people hot-tempered , ' she went on , very much pleased at having found out a new kind of rule , ' and vinegar that makes them sour -- and camomile that makes them bitter -- and -- and barley-sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered .
 ' Yes , ' said Alice doubtfully : ' it means -- to -- make -- anything -- prettier . '
 ' I have n't opened it yet , ' said the White Rabbit , ' but it seems to be a letter , written by the prisoner to -- to somebody . '
 It was one habit among other habits , and , like a dessert , looked forward to after the monotony of dinner .
 Charles , meanwhile , went to ask a groom to put his horse to . The dog-cart was brought to the foot of the steps , and , all the parcels being crammed in , the Bovarys paid their respects to the Marquis and Marchioness and set out again for Tostes .
 " Very well . We shall understand one another by and by .
 She maintained one day , in opposition to her husband , that she could drink off a large glass of brandy , and , as Charles was stupid enough to dare her to , she swallowed the brandy to the last drop .
 Lheureux ran off to his shop , brought back the money , and dictated another bill , by which Bovary undertook to pay to his order on the 1st of September next the sum of one thousand and seventy francs , which , with the hundred and eighty already agreed to , made just twelve hundred and fifty , thus lending at six per cent in addition to one-fourth for commission : and the things bringing him in a good third at the least , this ought in twelve months to give him a profit of a hundred and thirty francs .
 He must , he thought , at last make up his mind to possess her .
 `` At Madame Bovary 's , you 're not making love to - ''
 Emma was silent , and Monsieur Lheureux , who was biting the feathers of a quill , no doubt became uneasy at her silence , for he went on -
 `` Why , you have been crying ! What for ? ''
 She was ingenious and caressing , rejoicing in her heart at gaining once more an affection that had wandered from her for so many years .
 Mutilations come to them from every quarter , from within as well asfrom without .
 An individual who was standing beyond the railing , in the free space around the marble table , and whom no one had yet caught sight of , since his long , thin body was completely sheltered from every visual ray by the diameter of the pillar against which he was leaning ; this individual , we say , tall , gaunt , pallid , blond , still young , although already wrinkled about the brow and cheeks , with brilliant eyes and a smiling mouth , clad in garments of black serge , worn and shining with age , approached the marble table , and made a sign to the poor sufferer .
 If you have any mummery to go through with , there 's a very good God the Father in that mortar yonder , in stone , which we stole from Saint − Pierre aux Boeufs .
 `` Willing is not all , '' said the surly Clopin ; " good will does n't put one onion the more into the soup , and it is good for nothing except to go to Paradise with ; now , Paradise and the thieves ' band are two different things .
 She bounded from one end of the tiny room to the other , stooped down , and raised herself again , with a little poniard in her hand , before Gringoire had even had time to see whence the poniard came ; proud and angry , with swelling lips and inflated nostrils , her cheeks as red as an api apple , * and her eyes darting lightnings .
 The City , which occupied the island , was the most ancient , the smallest , and the mother of the other two , crowded in between them like ( may we be pardoned the comparison ) a little old woman between two large and handsome maidens .
 To each of these characteristic monuments there is attached by a similarity of taste , fashion , and attitude , a certain number of houses scattered about in different quarters and which the eyes of the connoisseur easily distinguishes and furnishes with a date .
 The matter was simple ; Claude Frollo had taken him in , had adopted him , had nourished him , had reared him .
 I had two things to consult you upon , one touching my health and the other touching my star . "
 The customs of the provostship and the viscomty had not yet been worked over by President Thibaut Baillet , and by Roger Barmne , the king 's advocate ; they had not been obstructed , at that time , by that lofty hedge of quibbles and procedures , which the two jurisconsults planted there at the beginning of the sixteenth century .
 Those among them who were a little inclined to impiety , had hoped that the matter might be accomplished in Paradise more easily than at Rome , and had frankly besought God , instead of the pope , in behalf of the deceased .
 She was breathless , dishevelled , frightful to see , and there was a fire in her eyes which dried her tears . She stopped the passers − by and cried : ' My daughter ! my daughter ! my pretty little daughter !
 Lying , in January , in that thin , linen sack , lying on a granite floor , without fire , in the gloom of a cell whose oblique air − hole allowed only the cold breeze , but never the sun , to enter from without , she did not appear to suffer or even to think .
 All at once he rose upright , and a quiver ran through his whole body : `` Who is that man ? '' he muttered between his teeth : `` I have always seen her alone before ! ''
 `` I thought I knew once , '' she said , passing her thin fingers over her eyelids , as though to aid her memory , `` but I know no longer . '' All at once she began to weep like a child .
 The captain , much more occupied with her than with that pack of the rabble , was amorously rumpling her girdle behind .
 Then the women laughed and wept , the crowd stamped with enthusiasm , for , at that moment Quasimodo had a beauty of his own .
 He thought he heard a cluster of skeletons at Montfauçon clashing together in the gloom .
 On re − entering the cloister , the archdeacon found at the door of his cell his brother Jehan du Moulin , who was waiting for him , and who had beguiled the tedium of waiting by drawing on the wall with a bit of charcoal , a profile of his elder brother , enriched with a monstrous nose .
 From above he beheld the vagabonds , filled with triumph and rage , shaking their fists at the gloomy façade ; and both on the gypsy 's account and his own he envied the wings of the owls which flitted away above his head in flocks .
 " Alas ! you have looked coldly on at my tears !
 She set her daughter ( down for she was still carrying her ) , in one corner of the cell which was not visible from without .
 `` Now , gentlemen , '' called out K. , and for a moment it seemed as if he was carrying all of them on his shoulders , " it looks like your business with me is over with .
 An old woman is the only person I can speak about it with . `` But it must have caused some work for you , '' he said then , `` but it wo n't happen again . ''
 Look , `` she pointed to the captain 's door , from under which there was a light shining , '' he 's put a light on and he 's laughing at us . "
 K. was very tired , as he had stayed out drinking until late in the night celebrating with some of the regulars , and he had almost overslept .
 `` Next time I come here , '' he said to himself , `` I must either bring sweets with me make them like me or a stick to hit them with . '' Just before he reached the first landing he even had to wait a little while until a ball had finished its movement , two small lads with sly faces like grown-up scoundrels held him by his trouser-legs until it had ; if he were to shake them off he would have to hurt them , and he was afraid of what noise they would make by shouting .
 `` Nothing that I know of , '' said the usher . `` And it 's going to get even worse now , up till now he 's only been carrying her off for himself , now he 's started carrying her off for the judge and all , just like I 'd always said he would . ''
 You 've known me for long enough , Mr. K. , I 'm sure you 're convinced of that .
 `` Miss Bürstner clearly refuses to grant me the personal meeting that I asked her for . ''
 On the other hand , there are also dark moments , such as everyone has , when you think you 've achieved nothing at all , when it seems that the only trials to come to a good end are those that were determined to have a good end from the start and would do so without any help , while all the others are lost despite all the running to and fro , all the effort , all the little , apparent successes that gave such joy .
 But you 're bound to have thought everything through and you know what you can and ca n't do . "
 She nodded and asked in reply , `` What do you want to see him for ? ''
 The businessman was sitting on the chair that K. had directed him to , he had extinguished the candle whose light was no longer needed and pressed on the wick with his fingers to stop the smoke .
 Instead of which there were just more hearings , and most of them went through the same things anyway ; I had all the answers off pat like in a church service ; there were messengers from the court coming to me at work several times a week , or they came to me at home or anywhere else they could find me ; and that was very disturbing of course ( but at least now things are better in that respect , it 's much less disturbing when they contact you by telephone ) , and rumours about my trial even started to spread among some of the people I do business with , and especially my relations , so I was being made to suffer in many different ways but there was still not the slightest sign that even the first hearing would take place soon .
 And before you say anything : none of them asked for a definite date for the main trial and none of them got one , and anyway , apart form one exception which I 'll talk about in a minute , it really is impossible , that 's one thing this lawyer did n't mislead me about ; but besides , I had no reason to regret turning to other lawyers .
 But that , of course , would be the stupidest thing you could do , and you would n't be left in peace in bed for very long either . "
 She attaches herself to each of them , loves each of them , even seems to be loved by each of them ; then she sometimes entertains me by telling me about them when I allow her to .
 The temptation for once to turn the job down was very great , especially as it had no direct connection with business , but there was no denying that social obligations towards this business contact were in themselves important enough , only not for K. , who knew quite well that he needed some successes at work if he was to maintain his position there and that , if he failed in that , it would not help him even if this Italian somehow found him quite charming ; he did not want to be removed from his workplace for even one day , as the fear of not being allowed back in was too great , he knew full well that the fear was exaggerated but it still made him anxious .
 `` What do you have to go to the cathedral for ? '' said Leni .
 Which errors , had he lived , were not enough to injure him had he not made a sixth by taking away their dominions from the Venetians ; because , had he not aggrandized the Church , nor brought Spain into Italy , it would have been very reasonable and necessary to humble them ; but having first taken these steps , he ought never to have consented to their ruin , for they , being powerful , would always have kept off others from designs on Lombardy , to which the Venetians would never have consented except to become masters themselves there ; also because the others would not wish to take Lombardy from France in order to give it to the Venetians , and to run counter to both they would not have had the courage .
 For this reason a prince ought to have two fears , one from within , on account of his subjects , the other from without , on account of external powers .
 But let us come to Commodus , to whom it should have been very easy to hold the empire , for , being the son of Marcus , he had inherited it , and he had only to follow in the footsteps of his father to please his people and soldiers ; but , being by nature cruel and brutal , he gave himself up to amusing the soldiers and corrupting them , so that he might indulge his rapacity upon the people ; on the other hand , not maintaining his dignity , often descending to the theatre to compete with gladiators , and doing other vile things , little worthy of the imperial majesty , he fell into contempt with the soldiers , and being hated by one party and despised by the other , he was conspired against and was killed .
 The windows were long , narrow , and pointed , and at so vast a distance from the black oaken floor as to be altogether inaccessible from within .
 The chief qualities that had won him this general respect in his Office were , first , his extreme leniency , founded on a consciousness of his own defects ; secondly , his true Liberalism - not that of which he read in his paper , but that which was in his blood and made him treat all men alike whatever their rank or official position ; thirdly and chiefly , his complete indifference to the business he was engaged on , in consequence of which he was never carried away by enthusiasm and never made mistakes .
 He was on familiar terms with everybody he drank champagne with , and he drank champagne with everybody .
 He felt that his brother would not look at the matter as he wished him to .
 She was the smile that brightened everything around . ' Can I really step down on to the ice , and go up to her ? ' he thought .
 Whether she repented of having drawn Levin on or of having rejected him she did not know , but her happiness was troubled by doubts .
 ' You gave my assistant 200 roubles . Please be so kind as to say whom you intended it for . '
 He listened to Agatha Mikhaylovna 's talk of how Prokhor had forgotten the Lord , was spending on drink the money Levin had given him to buy a horse with , and had beaten his wife nearly to death ; he listened and read , and remembered the whole sequence of thoughts raised by what he was reading .
 Though she could remember neither his nor her own words , she instinctively felt that that momentary conversation had drawn them terribly near to one another , and this both frightened her and made her happy .
 While he was approaching her from behind he observed with joy that she became aware of his approach and was about to turn but , on recognizing him , again addressed her husband .
 ' Tell me what I keep you for ! ' he shouted ; but remembering that this would not help matters , he stopped in the middle of what he was saying and only sighed .
 ' It will be possible , beyond Turkino , to-morrow or the day after . '
 A tawny owl hooted near by , and Laska started , took a few careful steps , and with her head on one side again listened intently .
 Oblonsky wrinkled his face good-naturedly , like an innocent man who was being hurt and interfered with .
 She was one of those creatures who seem as if they would certainly speak if only the mechanical construction of their mouths allowed them to .
 It brought on with tenfold force an attack of that strange repulsion to - he knew not whom ; but at the same time he felt that the crisis he had hoped for had now come , that concealment from the husband was no longer possible , and that somehow or other the unnatural situation must be quickly ended .
 VRONSKY HAD TRIED SEVERAL TIMES BEFORE , though never so definitely as now , to lead her on to a discussion of her position , and had always encountered the same superficiality and lightness of judgment with which she now replied to his challenge .
 The country house the Karenins regularly occupied in summer was in Peterhof , and generally the Countess Lydia Ivanovna also lived near by and was in constant touch with Anna .
 ' Ah ! ' exclaimed the Prince , seeing the Moscow Colonel standing near by , and with a bow to Madame Stahl he moved away with his daughter and with the Moscow Colonel , who had joined them .
 On the short swaths the mowers crowded together , their tin boxes clattering , their scythes ringing whenever they touched , the whetstones whistling upon the blades , and their merry voices resounding as they urged each other on .
 OBLONSKY HAD GONE TO PETERSBURG to fulfil a very necessary duty - which to officials seems most natural and familiar , though to laymen it is incomprehensible - that of reminding the Ministry of his existence , without the performance of which rite continuance in Government service is impossible . Having taken away with him all the money there was in the house , he contrived while attending to duty to pass his time very pleasantly , going to races and visiting at country houses .
 The peasants who lived near by had also gone home , and those from a distance had gathered together to have supper and spend the night in the meadow .
 The dog that followed Levin frightened her , but when she was told that it would not hurt her she at once began to laugh at her own alarm .
 It was the same with the socialistic books : they were either beautiful but inapplicable fancies which had carried him away when he was still at the university or they were improvements and patchings-up of the order existing in Europe , with which agricultural affairs in Russia have nothing in common .
 ' I need only push on steadily toward my aim and I shall achieve it , ' he thought , ' and it is worth working and striving for .
 Instead of a cheerful , healthy stranger who , he hoped , would have diverted him from his mental perplexity , he had to meet his brother , who knew him through and through and would disturb his innermost thoughts and force him to make a clean breast of everything .
 ' Tell her we have not got a cheap sale on here ! ' he said and came back again .
 He began at once , and without the slightest effort , to fulfil the promise he had made her , of thinking well of and always liking everybody .
 INVOLUNTARILY REVIEWING THE IMPRESSIONS left on his mind by the conversations at dinner and after , Karenin returned to his solitary room . What Dolly had said about forgiveness had merely vexed him .
 ' Then why would you not let me nurse her , when I entreated you to ? She is a child anyhow ' ( he understood what she meant by that anyhow ) ' and they will kill her . '
 ' She will form a union with him and within a year or two he will either abandon her or she will unite with someone else ; ' thought Karenin ; ' and I , by consenting to an illegal divorce , shall be the cause of her ruin . ' Hundreds of times he had thought it over and had come to the conclusion that a divorce was not merely less simple than his brother-in-law considered it , but quite out of the question .
 When Anna returned with her hat and mantle on , and stood beside him toying with her sunshade with quick motions of her beautiful hand , Vronsky with a feeling of relief turned from Golenishchev 's eyes which were fixed on him plaintively . With renewed love he glanced at his charming companion , so full of vitality and joy .
 Of course it is not her fault ; there is nothing to reproach her with .
 Later on , when he accidentally heard from his nurse that she was not dead , and his father and Lydia Ivanovna explained that to him she was dead because she was bad ( which he could not at all believe , for he loved her ) , he continued to look out for and wait for her .
 It was painful to her even to think of writing to and coming into contact with her husband : she could be calm only when she did not think of him .
 I , when I come back from abroad and put this on again , regret my freedom , ' he said , touching his shoulder-knot .
 ' I do , and I do n't . But I want him to , awfully !
 ' I do n't give it away because nobody demands that of me , and if I wanted to I could not do it , ' replied Levin ; ' besides , there is no one to give it to . '
 ' I will do whatever you tell me to , ' he replied morosely .
 The gardener saw with surprise that , though nothing had been pursuing them and there had been nothing to run away from , and they could not have found anything very blissful on that seat , they passed him on their way back to the house with quieted and beaming faces .
 The baby looked wonderfully sweet when she was put down on the carpet , with her little frock tucked up behind .
 Besides that , from a few words she heard , Dolly at once understood that Anna , the wet nurse , the head nurse , and the baby did not get on with one another , and that the mother 's appearance was not a usual occurrence .
 ' Es kommt darauf an ... Der Preis vom Draht muss ausgerechnet werden , [ It all depends ...
 ' But tell me about yourself . I have much to talk to you about and I have been talking with ...
 He is an honest fellow , but this old-fashioned patriarchal and family management of the Nobility 's affairs must be put a stop to ! '
 That 's what the Nobility are for .
 Then a solitary voice proclaimed the number for and against .
 Several times she had thought she heard the sound of wheels but had been mistaken ; at last she heard not only the wheels but also the coachman 's voice and a dull rumbling in the portico .
 He told her about the elections , and Anna knew how by questions to lead him on to just what pleased him - his success .
 But she understood him not from without but from within and saw that in town he was not himself ; she could not otherwise define his condition .
 ' You 'll finish by being fonder of her than of your own . '
 With that expression her face seemed even more beautiful than before ; but it was a novel look ; it was outside the circle of expressions , radiating happiness and creating happiness , which the artist had caught when painting her portrait .
 All the events had consisted of conversations : conversations to which he had listened or in which he had taken part . All these conversations were about matters he would never have occupied himself with had he been in the country , but here they were very interesting .
 Steve asked me to , and Dolly wished it , ' continued Levin .
 She spoke very rapidly and tried to smile , but all at once her face became distorted and she pushed him away .
 ' It is perfectly indifferent to me what your mother thinks and whom she wishes to marry you to , ' she went on , putting down her cup with a trembling hand .
 But just then she recollected that now she had no one to tell anything funny to . ' Besides , there is nothing amusing or merry .
 Peter with a stupid smile raised his gold-braided hat to take leave of her ; an insolent guard slammed the door to and drew the latch .
 And they began talking about the latest war news , each concealing from the other his perplexity as to whom to-morrow 's battle was to be with , since the Turks , according to the latest intelligence , had been beaten at all points .
 For six weeks he spoke to no one and ate only when I implored him to .
 We took away everything that he could kill himself with . We lived on the ground floor , but one could not tell what he might do .
 He might sell straw to the peasants in a time of shortage , though he felt sorry for them ; but an inn or a public-house , although it brought in a revenue , must be done away with .
 ' Where did I get it from ? Was it by reason that I attained to the knowledge that I must love my neighbour and not throttle him ?
 When their mother caught them at this pursuit , she began in Levin 's presence to impress on them how much trouble what they were wasting had cost grown-up people , that that trouble had been taken for them , that if they broke cups they would not have anything to drink tea out of , and if they spilt milk they would not have anything to eat and would die of hunger .
 She did not finish , for by this time she was bending down and punching under the bed with the broom , and so she needed breath to punctuate the punches with .
 He had shoes on -- and it was only Friday .
 By the time Ben was fagged out , Tom had traded the next chance to Billy Fisher for a kite , in good repair ; and when he played out , Johnny Miller bought in for a dead rat and a string to swing it with -- and so on , and so on , hour after hour .
 The librarian `` showed off '' -- running hither and thither with his arms full of books and making a deal of the splutter and fuss that insect authority delights in .
 " That 's the name they lick me by .
 `` Why , that , you know , is to -- well , they always do that . ''
 So she sat down to cry again and upbraid herself ; and by this time the scholars began to gather again , and she had to hide her griefs and still her broken heart and take up the cross of a long , dreary , aching afternoon , with none among the strangers about her to exchange sorrows with .
 What did you want to come here for ? " somebody said .
 She had him out at daylight every morning , stood him up in the wood-shed and drowned him with a deluge of cold water ; then she scrubbed him down with a towel like a file , and so brought him to ; then she rolled him up in a wet sheet and put him away under blankets till she sweated his soul clean and `` the yellow stains of it came through his pores '' -- as Tom said .
 He was a forsaken , friendless boy , he said ; nobody loved him ; when they found out what they had driven him to , perhaps they would be sorry ; he had tried to do right and get along , but they would not let him ; since nothing would do them but to be rid of him , let it be so ; and let them blame _ him _ for the consequences -- why should n't they ?
 Finn the Red-Handed had stolen a skillet and a quantity of half-cured leaf tobacco , and had also brought a few corn-cobs to make pipes with .
 `` What does he put sackcloth and ashes on his head for ? '' inquired Huck .
 " Why , Huck , you 'd _ have _ to .
 `` Oh no , Joe , you 'll feel better by and by , '' said Tom .
 `` Who cares ! '' said Tom . " Nobody wants you to .
 They got scorched out by and by , and drearily set about getting breakfast .
 Then there was a dispute about who saw the dead boys last in life , and many claimed that dismal distinction , and offered evidences , more or less tampered with by the witness ; and when it was ultimately decided who _ did _ see the departed last , and exchanged the last words with them , the lucky parties took upon themselves a sort of sacred importance , and were gaped at and envied by all the rest .
 Next appeared a dark-complexioned , black-eyed , black-haired young lady , who paused an impressive moment , assumed a tragic expression , and began to read in a measured , solemn tone :
 A strange sadness rested upon her features , like icy tears upon the robe of December , as she pointed to the contending elements without , and bade me contemplate the two beings presented . "
 Now the master , mellow almost to the verge of geniality , put his chair aside , turned his back to the audience , and began to draw a map of America on the blackboard , to exercise the geography class upon .
 `` Huck , have you ever told anybody about -- that ? ''
 I went there with -- "
 Tom slipped out in good season with his aunt 's old tin lantern , and a large towel to blindfold it with .
 I tote water for Uncle Jake whenever he wants me to , and any time I ask him he gives me a little something to eat if he can spare it . That 's a mighty good nigger , Tom .
 THE first thing Tom heard on Friday morning was a glad piece of news -- Judge Thatcher 's family had come back to town the night before .
 There was abundance of cold water to finish the feast with .
 " Now , Huck , where we 're a-standing you could touch that hole I got out of with a fishing-pole .
