 `` Burns '' ( such it seems was her name : the girls here were all called by their surnames , as boys are elsewhere ) , `` Burns , you are standing on the side of your shoe ; turn your toes out immediately . '' `` Burns , you poke your chin most unpleasantly ; draw it in . ''
 `` Burns , I insist on your holding your head up ; I will not have you before me in that attitude , '' & c . & c .
 I followed still , up a very narrow staircase to the attics , and thence by a ladder and through a trap-door to the roof of the hall .
 `` No crowding , '' said Mr. Rochester : `` take the drawings from my hand as I finish with them ; but do n't push your faces up to mine . ''
 Floating on with closed eyes and muffled ears , you neither see the rocks bristling not far off in the bed of the flood , nor hear the breakers boil at their base .
 I see her yet in her raging passions , when we had driven her to extremities -- spilt our tea , crumbled our bread and butter , tossed our books up to the ceiling , and played a charivari with the ruler and desk , the fender and fire-irons .
 Holding my hand in both his own , he chafed it ; gazing on me , at the same time , with the most troubled and dreary look .
 " Well , you may tell them I wish you to stay till I can talk some things over with you I have on my mind : to-night it is too late , and I have a difficulty in recalling them .
 Georgiana , when not unburdening her heart to me , spent most of her time in lying on the sofa , fretting about the dulness of the house , and wishing over and over again that her aunt Gibson would send her an invitation up to town .
 The wedding is to take place quietly , in the church down below yonder ; and then I shall waft you away at once to town .
 As John took his horse , and he followed me into the hall , he told me to make haste and put something dry on , and then return to him in the library ; and he stopped me , as I made for the staircase , to extort a promise that I would not be long : nor was I long ; in five minutes I rejoined him .
 `` At any rate , it makes us no worse off than we were before , '' remarked Mary .
 As we advanced and left the track , we trod a soft turf , mossy fine and emerald green , minutely enamelled with a tiny white flower , and spangled with a star-like yellow blossom : the hills , meantime , shut us quite in ; for the glen , towards its head , wound to their very core .
 `` If you wo n't let me live with you , I can build a house of my own close up to your door , and you may come and sit in my parlour when you want company of an evening . ''
 `` And have you a pale blue dress on ? ''
 She waited for some time without hearing anything more : at last came a rumbling of little cartwheels , and the sound of a good many voices all talking together : she made out the words : ' Where 's the other ladder ? -- Why , I had n't to bring but one ; Bill 's got the other -- Bill ! fetch it here , lad ! -- Here , put ' em up at this corner -- No , tie ' em together first -- they do n't reach half high enough yet -- Oh ! they 'll do well enough ; do n't be particular -- Here , Bill ! catch hold of this rope -- Will the roof bear ? -- Mind that loose slate -- Oh , it 's coming down ! Heads below ! ' ( a loud crash ) -- ' Now , who did that ? -- It was Bill , I fancy -- Who 's to go down the chimney ? -- Nay , I sha n't ! you do it ! -- That I wo n't , then ! -- Bill 's to go down -- Here , Bill ! the master says you 're to go down the chimney ! '
 If they had any sense , they 'd take the roof off . ' After a minute or two , they began moving about again , and Alice heard the Rabbit say , ' A barrowful will do , to begin with . '
 Hardly knowing what she did , she picked up a little bit of stick , and held it out to the puppy ; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once , with a yelp of delight , and rushed at the stick , and made believe to worry it ; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle , to keep herself from being run over ; and the moment she appeared on the other side , the puppy made another rush at the stick , and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it ; then Alice , thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse , and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet , ran round the thistle again ; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick , running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back , and barking hoarsely all the while , till at last it sat down a good way off , panting , with its tongue hanging out of its mouth , and its great eyes half shut .
 Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door -
 ' -- and just take his head off outside , ' the Queen added to one of the officers : but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door .
 He sent them word I had not gone ( We know it to be true ) : If she should push the matter on , What would become of you ?
 He could not keep from constantly touching her comb , her ring , her fichu ; sometimes he gave her great sounding kisses with all his mouth on her cheeks , or else little kisses in a row all along her bare arm from the tip of her fingers up to her shoulder , and she put him away half-smiling , half-vexed , as you do a child who hangs about you .
 As he grew older his manner grew heavier ; at dessert he cut the corks of the empty bottles ; after eating he cleaned his teeth with his tongue ; in taking soup he made a gurgling noise with every spoonful ; and , as he was getting fatter , the puffed-out cheeks seemed to push the eyes , always small , up to the temples .
 Here 's a fine fitness for practising pharmacy later on ; for under serious circumstances you may be called before the tribunals in order to enlighten the minds of the magistrates , and you would have to keep your head then , to reason , show yourself a man , or else pass for an imbecile . "
 And to put his arm-chair back in its place he was darting away from the counter , when Binet asked him for half an ounce of sugar acid .
 `` Now who can trouble you , since in six months you 'll draw the arrears for your cottage , and I do n't make the last bill due till after you 've been paid ? ''
 And Leon suddenly appeared to her as far off as the others .
 `` Do get closer to the stove ; put your feet up against the porcelain . ''
 And , without listening to the chemist , who was still venturing the hypothesis , `` It is perhaps a salutary paroxysm , '' Canivet was about to administer some theriac , when they heard the cracking of a whip ; all the windows rattled , and a post-chaise drawn by three horses abreast , up to their ears in mud , drove at a gallop round the corner of the market . It was Doctor Lariviere .
 Then , while apparently listening to Canivet , he rubbed his fingers up and down beneath his nostrils , and repeated -
 Around the hall , along the lofty wall , between the doors , between the windows , between the pillars , the interminable row of all the kings of France , from Pharamond down : the lazy kings , with pendent arms and downcast eyes ; the valiant and combative kings , with heads and arms raised boldly heavenward .
 `` Quick , quick , '' said the deaf man , endeavoring to drag the horse along ; `` this way ! '' Phoebus dealt him a vigorous kick in the breast .
 He walked up and down the free space in the room a couple of times , across the street he could see the old woman who , now , had pulled an old man , much older than herself , up to the window and had her arms around him .
 The next moment she would certainly go into her room , where K. ought not to intrude in the middle of the night ; that meant he would have to speak to her now , but , unfortunately , he had not put the electric light on in his room so that when he stepped out of the dark it would give the impression of being an attack and would certainly , at the very least , have been quite alarming .
 Wait here till I 've put the light on in my room , and then turn the light down out here . "
 A fruitmonger , taking his goods up to the windows , was just as inattentive as K. and nearly knocked him down with his cart .
 So on Sunday , he set out once more in the same direction , going without hesitation up the steps and through the corridors ; some of the people remembered him and greeted him from their doorways , but he no longer needed to ask anyone the way and soon arrived at the right door .
 `` Everything is so dirty here , '' said K. , shaking his head , and before he could pick the books up the woman wiped some of the dust off with her apron .
 K. ran the few steps up to him , but when he had reached him and was about to take hold of him and , if necessary , throttle him , the woman said ,
 `` Nothing that I know of , '' said the usher . `` And it 's going to get even worse now , up till now he 's only been carrying her off for himself , now he 's started carrying her off for the judge and all , just like I 'd always said he would . ''
 `` Come with me ! '' K. repeated , now somewhat sharper as if he had finally caught the usher out in a lie .
 But so much soot fell in that the girl had to immediately close the hatch again and clean the soot off K. 's hands with her handkerchief , as K. was too tired to do that for himself .
 K. heard the maid out thoughtfully , and then looked back at the shocked Mrs. Grubach in a way that was almost contemptuous .
 If that had been his intention then it would almost have been easier , K. would have taken his own clothes off and offered himself to the whip-man in the policemen 's place .
 I can read you out the part of the letter that concerns you . " He drew the letter out from his wallet .
 Dr. Huld 's carer was still leant far over the invalid 's bed and smoothing out the cloth covering the wall next to it , she merely turned her head and then , in striking contrast with the anger that first stopped K. 's uncle from speaking and then let the words out in a gush , she said very quietly , `` You can see that Dr. Huld is so ill that he ca n't discuss any matters at all . ''
 In the end , they agreed that they would try to tire the old man out .
 All the while he had left his defence up to the lawyer his trial had had little basic affect on him , he had observed it from afar as something that was scarcely able to reach him directly , when it suited him he looked to see how things stood but he was also able to draw his head back again whenever he wanted .
 K. had unconsciously made a step towards the door as if wanting to show the manufacturer out , but the manufacturer said , " Chief clerk , there 's something else I 'd like to mention to you .
 So K. turned the collar of his coat up and buttoned it up high under his chin . Just then the deputy director came out of the adjoining room , smiled as he saw K. negotiating with the gentlemen in his winter coat , and asked , `` Are you about to go out ? ''
 They stood on both sides of the stairs , pressing themselves against the wall so that K. could get through between them , and smoothed their aprons down with their hands .
 K. had hardly turned towards the door , he had left it completely up to the painter whether and how he would place him under his protection if he wanted to .
 They 're the only possibilities , `` said the painter . '' But before we talk about them , would you not like to take your coat off ?
 He had hardly done this when one of the girls called out , `` Now he 's taken his coat off ! '' and they could all be heard pressing around the gaps in the planks to see the spectacle for themselves .
 But now , before anything else , take your coat off ! "
 `` As you wish , '' said K. , drawing a chair up to the bedside table and sitting down .
 The good intentions he had had earlier , though , seemed to have left him completely , it was the Italian who had caused him all this effort and sometimes he became so angry with him that he buried the dictionary under some papers firmly intending to do no more preparation , but then he realised he could not walk up and down in the cathedral with the Italian without saying a word , so , with in an even greater rage , he pulled the dictionary back out again .
 As he was tired he wanted to sit down , he went back inside the cathedral , he found something like a small carpet on one of the steps , he moved it with his foot to a nearby pew , wrapped himself up tighter in his coat , put the collar up and sat down .
 The priest - there was no doubt that he was a priest , a young man with a smooth , dark face - was clearly going up there just to put the lamp out after somebody had lit it by mistake .
 They kept their shoulders close behind his , did not turn their arms in but twisted them around the entire length of K. 's arms and took hold of his hands with a grasp that was formal , experienced and could not be resisted .
 He thought of the flies that tear their legs off struggling to get free of the flypaper . `` These gentleman will have some hard work to do . ''
 Here they released their hold on K. , who just waited in silence , and took their top hats off while they looked round the quarry and wiped the sweat off their brows with their handkerchiefs .
 Then he carefully folded the things up as if they would still be needed , even if not in the near future .
 He felt a slight itch up on his belly ; pushed himself slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better ; found where the itch was , and saw that it was covered with lots of little white spots which he did n't know what to make of ; and when he tried to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder .
 Would his sister have to go and earn money ? She was still a child of seventeen , her life up till then had been very enviable , consisting of wearing nice clothes , sleeping late , helping out in the business , joining in with a few modest pleasures and most of all playing the violin .
 One day , in order to spare her even this sight , he spent four hours carrying the bedsheet over to the couch on his back and arranged it so that he was completely covered and his sister would not be able to see him even if she bent down .
 As soon as it struck ten , Gregor 's mother would speak gently to his father to wake him and try to persuade him to go to bed , as he could n't sleep properly where he was and he really had to get his sleep if he was to be up at six to get to work .
 He could see quite well , though , that there were more reasons than consideration for him that made it difficult for them to move , it would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate with a few air holes in it ; the main thing holding the family back from their decision to move was much more to do with their total despair , and the thought that they had been struck with a misfortune unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related to .
 When the violin began playing they became attentive , stood up and went on tip-toe over to the door of the hallway where they stood pressed against each other .
 But when it is necessary for him to proceed against the life of someone , he must do it on proper justification and for manifest cause , but above all things he must keep his hands off the property of others , because men more quickly forget the death of their father than the loss of their patrimony .
 The most terrible thing ... ' She did not finish the thought , because Matrena Filimonovna thrust her head in at the door .
 Two of his colleagues - Nikitin , an old hard-working official , and Grinevich , a Gentleman of the Bedchamber - followed him out .
 Invite all the young puppies , ' so the Prince called the Moscow young men , ' have a pianist and let them dance ; but do n't have the sort of thing we had to-night - these suitors and this pairing off .
 At last she pulled the button off and put it into her pocket .
 ' Steve let it all out to me , and I shall be very pleased . I travelled yesterday with Vronsky 's mother , ' she continued , ' and she talked about him all the time .
 ' All together ! ' said Anna laughing and running to meet them , and putting her arms round them she tumbled the whole heap of children - struggling and shrieking joyfully - on to the floor .
 The wind seemed only to have waited for her : it whistled merrily and tried to seize and carry her off , but she held on to the cold door-post and held down her shawl , then stepping on to the platform she moved away from the carriage .
 But have a wash and smarten yourself up , ' said the Baroness , again sitting down and carefully turning a small screw of the coffee-pot . ' Pierre , pass me the coffee , ' she said to Petritsky whom , not concealing their relations , she called Pierre ( the French for Peter ) , because of his surname .
 The dairymaids , with twigs in their hands , holding their skirts up over their bare white legs , not yet sun-burnt , splashed through the puddles into the yard , driving the calves , who were mad with the joy of spring .
 Some of the peasants went to put on their coats ; others as well as Levin felt pleasure in the refreshing rain and merely moved their shoulders up and down .
 Do n't let the gelding out , Fedot , lead him to the trough . We 'll harness another . '
 ' Do take your things off and stay , ' said Levin , removing the hat .
 A minute later he put his head out and beckoned to Levin .
 Chirikov gaily and good-naturedly backed up every one else .
 ' There you are ! ' said Sergius Ivanich . ' Good-bye to bear-hunting in future !
 ' Yes , they have , ' replied Levin , and told Kuzma to get his things out that he might dress .
 ' I 'm not looking , ' she said , helping the arm in . ' Mary Nikolavna , you go round to the other side and put it right , ' she added .
 She caught hold of a corner of this photo several times with her deft little hand , the slender white fingers of which moved with special strenuousness that day , but each time they slipped and she could not get the picture out .
 The act had just finished when he came in , so before going to his brother 's box he went up to the front row and paused beside Serpukhovskoy , who was standing with his knee bent , tapping the wall of the orchestra with his heel . He had noticed Vronsky afar off and welcomed him with a smile .
 ' I always buy dress materials for the maids myself , at the sales , ' the Princess said , continuing the conversation . ' Is it not time to take the scum off , my dear ? ' she added , turning to Agatha Mikhaylovna .
 Dolly had not had time to rise to go to meet her husband , before Levin had jumped out of the window of the room below , where he had been teaching Grisha , and had lifted the boy out too .
 At length the door opened noisily and out bounded , spinning round and round in the air , Krak , Oblonsky 's yellow spotted pointer , followed by Oblonsky himself with a gun in his hand and a cigar in his mouth . ' Quiet , quiet , Krak ! ' he said affectionately to the dog , which was throwing its paws up against his stomach and chest and getting them entangled in his game-bag .
 ' Yes , it does touch one to the quick , ' replied Vronsky , ' and having once taken the matter up , one wants to carry it through .
 ' I told you to let no one out ! ' he shouted to the doorkeeper . ' I was letting people in , Your Excellency ! '
 The terrible screaming did not cease , but grew yet more awful until , as if it had reached the utmost limit of horror , it suddenly ceased .
 ' Yes , but I bring forward another principle which embraces the principle of freedom , ' said Karenin , accentuating the word ' embraces , ' and putting his pince-nez on again to re-read the part where this was said .
 He 'll lend , and sometimes let a man off , and so run short himself .
 `` Say -- if you give me much more of your sass I 'll take and bounce a rock off 'n your head . ''
 It was the most stunning surprise of the decade , and so profound was the sensation that it lifted the new hero up to the judicial one 's altitude , and the school had two marvels to gaze upon in place of one .
 Sometimes I take ' em off with a bean . `` '' Yes , bean 's good .
 She resisted , for a while , and then said : " You turn your face away so you ca n't see , and then I will . But you must n't ever tell anybody -- _ will _ you , Tom ?
 `` Here it is , '' said the third voice ; and the owner of it held the lantern up and revealed the face of young Doctor Robinson .
 " Send the r 'yals up !
 They were eloquent in their distress ; but they presently discovered that the fire had eaten so far up under the great log it had been built against ( where it curved upward and separated itself from the ground ) , that a handbreadth or so of it had escaped wetting ; so they patiently wrought until , with shreds and bark gathered from the under sides of sheltered logs , they coaxed the fire to burn again .
 We got to give this one up .
 " I do n't like to stir ' em up , either .
 `` Say , Tom , let 's give this place up , and try somewheres else . ''
 `` How 'll she ever know ? '' The girl turned the idea over in her mind , and said reluctantly : `` I reckon it 's wrong -- but -- ''
 They passed on , up the summit .
 `` By George , he _ has _ got something to tell , or he would n't act so ! '' exclaimed the old man ; `` out with it and nobody here 'll ever tell , lad . ''
 We 've got it now , and we 'll keep it quiet , only we 'll let Joe Harper and Ben Rogers in -- because of course there 's got to be a Gang , or else there would n't be any style about it . Tom Sawyer 's Gang -- it sounds splendid , do n't it , Huck ? "
