 Nor could I pass unnoticed the suggestion of the bleak shores of Lapland , Siberia , Spitzbergen , Nova Zembla , Iceland , Greenland , with `` the vast sweep of the Arctic Zone , and those forlorn regions of dreary space , -- that reservoir of frost and snow , where firm fields of ice , the accumulation of centuries of winters , glazed in Alpine heights above heights , surround the pole , and concentre the multiplied rigours of extreme cold . ''
 `` I will send her , then , as soon as possible , Mr. Brocklehurst ; for , I assure you , I feel anxious to be relieved of a responsibility that was becoming too irksome . ''
 In short , I believe you have been trying to draw me out -- or in ; you have been talking nonsense to make me talk nonsense .
 It had heretofore been my habit always to shrink from arrogance : received as I had been to-day , I should , a year ago , have resolved to quit Gateshead the very next morning ; now , it was disclosed to me all at once that that would be a foolish plan .
 I think I shall like you again , and yet again : and I will make you confess I do not only _ like _ , but _ love _ you -- with truth , fervour , constancy . "
 When all was finished , I thought Moor House as complete a model of bright modest snugness within , as it was , at this season , a specimen of wintry waste and desert dreariness without .
 I recalled the voice I had heard ; again I questioned whence it came , as vainly as before : it seemed in _ me _ -- not in the external world .
 Do cats eat bats ? ' and sometimes , ' Do bats eat cats ? ' for , you see , as she could n't answer either question , it did n't much matter which way she put it .
 The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo : she succeeded in getting its body tucked away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with its legs hanging down , but generally , just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out , and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head , it would twist itself round and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing : and when she had got its head down , and was going to begin again , it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself , and was in the act of crawling away : besides all this , there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to , and , as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground , Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed .
 ' I have n't opened it yet , ' said the White Rabbit , ' but it seems to be a letter , written by the prisoner to -- to somebody . '
 Lheureux ran off to his shop , brought back the money , and dictated another bill , by which Bovary undertook to pay to his order on the 1st of September next the sum of one thousand and seventy francs , which , with the hundred and eighty already agreed to , made just twelve hundred and fifty , thus lending at six per cent in addition to one-fourth for commission : and the things bringing him in a good third at the least , this ought in twelve months to give him a profit of a hundred and thirty francs .
 Emma was silent , and Monsieur Lheureux , who was biting the feathers of a quill , no doubt became uneasy at her silence , for he went on -
 The City , which occupied the island , was the most ancient , the smallest , and the mother of the other two , crowded in between them like ( may we be pardoned the comparison ) a little old woman between two large and handsome maidens .
 Those among them who were a little inclined to impiety , had hoped that the matter might be accomplished in Paradise more easily than at Rome , and had frankly besought God , instead of the pope , in behalf of the deceased .
 She was breathless , dishevelled , frightful to see , and there was a fire in her eyes which dried her tears . She stopped the passers − by and cried : ' My daughter ! my daughter ! my pretty little daughter !
 Then the women laughed and wept , the crowd stamped with enthusiasm , for , at that moment Quasimodo had a beauty of his own .
 He thought he heard a cluster of skeletons at Montfauçon clashing together in the gloom .
 On re − entering the cloister , the archdeacon found at the door of his cell his brother Jehan du Moulin , who was waiting for him , and who had beguiled the tedium of waiting by drawing on the wall with a bit of charcoal , a profile of his elder brother , enriched with a monstrous nose .
 From above he beheld the vagabonds , filled with triumph and rage , shaking their fists at the gloomy façade ; and both on the gypsy 's account and his own he envied the wings of the owls which flitted away above his head in flocks .
 `` Now , gentlemen , '' called out K. , and for a moment it seemed as if he was carrying all of them on his shoulders , " it looks like your business with me is over with .
 `` Nothing that I know of , '' said the usher . `` And it 's going to get even worse now , up till now he 's only been carrying her off for himself , now he 's started carrying her off for the judge and all , just like I 'd always said he would . ''
 On the other hand , there are also dark moments , such as everyone has , when you think you 've achieved nothing at all , when it seems that the only trials to come to a good end are those that were determined to have a good end from the start and would do so without any help , while all the others are lost despite all the running to and fro , all the effort , all the little , apparent successes that gave such joy .
 But that , of course , would be the stupidest thing you could do , and you would n't be left in peace in bed for very long either . "
 `` What do you have to go to the cathedral for ? '' said Leni .
 For this reason a prince ought to have two fears , one from within , on account of his subjects , the other from without , on account of external powers .
 But let us come to Commodus , to whom it should have been very easy to hold the empire , for , being the son of Marcus , he had inherited it , and he had only to follow in the footsteps of his father to please his people and soldiers ; but , being by nature cruel and brutal , he gave himself up to amusing the soldiers and corrupting them , so that he might indulge his rapacity upon the people ; on the other hand , not maintaining his dignity , often descending to the theatre to compete with gladiators , and doing other vile things , little worthy of the imperial majesty , he fell into contempt with the soldiers , and being hated by one party and despised by the other , he was conspired against and was killed .
 The chief qualities that had won him this general respect in his Office were , first , his extreme leniency , founded on a consciousness of his own defects ; secondly , his true Liberalism - not that of which he read in his paper , but that which was in his blood and made him treat all men alike whatever their rank or official position ; thirdly and chiefly , his complete indifference to the business he was engaged on , in consequence of which he was never carried away by enthusiasm and never made mistakes .
 It brought on with tenfold force an attack of that strange repulsion to - he knew not whom ; but at the same time he felt that the crisis he had hoped for had now come , that concealment from the husband was no longer possible , and that somehow or other the unnatural situation must be quickly ended .
 OBLONSKY HAD GONE TO PETERSBURG to fulfil a very necessary duty - which to officials seems most natural and familiar , though to laymen it is incomprehensible - that of reminding the Ministry of his existence , without the performance of which rite continuance in Government service is impossible . Having taken away with him all the money there was in the house , he contrived while attending to duty to pass his time very pleasantly , going to races and visiting at country houses .
 It was the same with the socialistic books : they were either beautiful but inapplicable fancies which had carried him away when he was still at the university or they were improvements and patchings-up of the order existing in Europe , with which agricultural affairs in Russia have nothing in common .
 ' Tell her we have not got a cheap sale on here ! ' he said and came back again .
 When Anna returned with her hat and mantle on , and stood beside him toying with her sunshade with quick motions of her beautiful hand , Vronsky with a feeling of relief turned from Golenishchev 's eyes which were fixed on him plaintively . With renewed love he glanced at his charming companion , so full of vitality and joy .
 ' Es kommt darauf an ... Der Preis vom Draht muss ausgerechnet werden , [ It all depends ...
 That 's what the Nobility are for .
 She spoke very rapidly and tried to smile , but all at once her face became distorted and she pushed him away .
 The librarian `` showed off '' -- running hither and thither with his arms full of books and making a deal of the splutter and fuss that insect authority delights in .
 `` What does he put sackcloth and ashes on his head for ? '' inquired Huck .
 Then there was a dispute about who saw the dead boys last in life , and many claimed that dismal distinction , and offered evidences , more or less tampered with by the witness ; and when it was ultimately decided who _ did _ see the departed last , and exchanged the last words with them , the lucky parties took upon themselves a sort of sacred importance , and were gaped at and envied by all the rest .
 A strange sadness rested upon her features , like icy tears upon the robe of December , as she pointed to the contending elements without , and bade me contemplate the two beings presented . "
 Now the master , mellow almost to the verge of geniality , put his chair aside , turned his back to the audience , and began to draw a map of America on the blackboard , to exercise the geography class upon .
