 `` It is well I drew the curtain , '' thought I ; and I wished fervently he might not discover my hiding-place : nor would John Reed have found it out himself ; he was not quick either of vision or conception ; but Eliza just put her head in at the door , and said at once --
 The fact is , I was a trifle beside myself ; or rather _ out _ of myself , as the French would say : I was conscious that a moment 's mutiny had already rendered me liable to strange penalties , and , like any other rebel slave , I felt resolved , in my desperation , to go all lengths .
 Say your prayers , Miss Eyre , when you are by yourself ; for if you do n't repent , something bad might be permitted to come down the chimney and fetch you away . "
 The house-maid alone came here on Saturdays , to wipe from the mirrors and the furniture a week 's quiet dust : and Mrs. Reed herself , at far intervals , visited it to review the contents of a certain secret drawer in the wardrobe , where were stored divers parchments , her jewel-casket , and a miniature of her deceased husband ; and in those last words lies the secret of the red-room -- the spell which kept it so lonely in spite of its grandeur .
 Turning from Bessie ( though her presence was far less obnoxious to me than that of Abbot , for instance , would have been ) , I scrutinised the face of the gentleman : I knew him ; it was Mr. Lloyd , an apothecary , sometimes called in by Mrs. Reed when the servants were ailing : for herself and the children she employed a physician .
 This state of things should have been to me a paradise of peace , accustomed as I was to a life of ceaseless reprimand and thankless fagging ; but , in fact , my racked nerves were now in such a state that no calm could soothe , and no pleasure excite them agreeably .
 `` The child ought to have change of air and scene , '' he added , speaking to himself ; `` nerves not in a good state . ''
 Mrs. Reed surveyed me at times with a severe eye , but seldom addressed me : since my illness , she had drawn a more marked line of separation than ever between me and her own children ; appointing me a small closet to sleep in by myself , condemning me to take my meals alone , and pass all my time in the nursery , while my cousins were constantly in the drawing-room .
 First , I smiled to myself and felt elate ; but this fierce pleasure subsided in me as fast as did the accelerated throb of my pulses .
 I stood , a wretched child enough , whispering to myself over and over again , `` What shall I do ? -- what shall I do ? ''
 `` Is she going by herself ? '' asked the porter 's wife .
 I ate what I could , and wondered within myself whether every day 's fare would be like this .
 I asked of myself . " Were I in her place , it seems to me I should wish the earth to open and swallow me up .
 It is far better to endure patiently a smart which nobody feels but yourself , than to commit a hasty action whose evil consequences will extend to all connected with you ; and besides , the Bible bids us return good for evil . "
 Helen was talking to herself now : she had forgotten I could not very well understand her -- that I was ignorant , or nearly so , of the subject she discussed .
 The other teachers , poor things , were generally themselves too much dejected to attempt the task of cheering others .
 I generally contrived to reserve a moiety of this bounteous repast for myself ; but the remainder I was invariably obliged to part with .
 " No ; I know I should think well of myself ; but that is not enough : if others do n't love me I would rather die than live -- I can not bear to be solitary and hated , Helen .
 There are many others who have no friends , who must look about for themselves and be their own helpers ; and what is their resource ? "
 This document remained locked in my drawer all day : after tea , I asked leave of the new superintendent to go to Lowton , in order to perform some small commissions for myself and one or two of my fellow-teachers ; permission was readily granted ; I went .
 This circumstance was satisfactory : a private fear had haunted me , that in thus acting for myself , and by my own guidance , I ran the risk of getting into some scrape ; and , above all things , I wished the result of my endeavours to be respectable , proper , _ en regle _ .
 I felt rather confused at being the object of more attention than I had ever before received , and , that too , shown by my employer and superior ; but as she did not herself seem to consider she was doing anything out of her place , I thought it better to take her civilities quietly .
 It would be difficult to say : I could not then distinctly say it to myself ; yet I had a reason , and a logical , natural reason too .
 The enigma then was explained : this affable and kind little widow was no great dame ; but a dependant like myself .
 Mr. Rochester asked me if I would like to go and live with him in England , and I said yes ; for I knew Mr. Rochester before I knew Madame Frederic , and he was always kind to me and gave me pretty dresses and toys : but you see he has not kept his word , for he has brought me to England , and now he is gone back again himself , and I never see him . "
 Is he liked for himself ? "
 Anybody may blame me who likes , when I add further , that , now and then , when I took a walk by myself in the grounds ; when I went down to the gates and looked through them along the road ; or when , while Adele played with her nurse , and Mrs. Fairfax made jellies in the storeroom , I climbed the three staircases , raised the trap-door of the attic , and having reached the leads , looked out afar over sequestered field and hill , and along dim sky-line -- that then I longed for a power of vision which might overpass that limit ; which might reach the busy world , towns , regions full of life I had heard of but never seen -- that then I desired more of practical experience than I possessed ; more of intercourse with my kind , of acquaintance with variety of character , than was here within my reach .
 `` I should think you ought to be at home yourself , '' said he , `` if you have a home in this neighbourhood : where do you come from ? ''
 `` I can not commission you to fetch help , '' he said ; `` but you may help me a little yourself , if you will be so kind . ''
 Mr. Rochester must have been aware of the entrance of Mrs. Fairfax and myself ; but it appeared he was not in the mood to notice us , for he never lifted his head as we approached .
 `` Do n't trouble yourself to give her a character , '' returned Mr. Rochester : " eulogiums will not bias me ; I shall judge for myself .
 `` Then I will say nothing , and you shall judge for yourself , sir . ''
 She averred they were a mystery to herself , and that what she knew was chiefly from conjecture .
 I brushed Adele 's hair and made her neat , and having ascertained that I was myself in my usual Quaker trim , where there was nothing to retouch -- all being too close and plain , braided locks included , to admit of disarrangement -- we descended , Adele wondering whether the _ petit coffre _ was at length come ; for , owing to some mistake , its arrival had hitherto been delayed .
 I leave both the choice of subject and the manner of treating it entirely to yourself . "
 Most things free-born will submit to anything for a salary ; therefore , keep to yourself , and do n't venture on generalities of which you are intensely ignorant .
 God wot I need not be too severe about others ; I have a past existence , a series of deeds , a colour of life to contemplate within my own breast , which might well call my sneers and censures from my neighbours to myself .
 Do you wonder that I avow this to you ? Know , that in the course of your future life you will often find yourself elected the involuntary confidant of your acquaintances ' secrets : people will instinctively find out , as I have done , that it is not your forte to tell of yourself , but to listen while others talk of themselves ; they will feel , too , that you listen with no malevolent scorn of their indiscretion , but with a kind of innate sympathy ; not the less comforting and encouraging because it is very unobtrusive in its manifestations . "
 As he had said , there was probably nothing at all extraordinary in the substance of the narrative itself : a wealthy Englishman 's passion for a French dancer , and her treachery to him , were every-day matters enough , no doubt , in society ; but there was something decidedly strange in the paroxysm of emotion which had suddenly seized him when he was in the act of expressing the present contentment of his mood , and his newly revived pleasure in the old hall and its environs .
 I meditated wonderingly on this incident ; but gradually quitting it , as I found it for the present inexplicable , I turned to the consideration of my master 's manner to myself .
 All at once I remembered that it might be Pilot , who , when the kitchen- door chanced to be left open , not unfrequently found his way up to the threshold of Mr. Rochester 's chamber : I had seen him lying there myself in the mornings .
 `` Was that Grace Poole ? and is she possessed with a devil ? '' thought I. Impossible now to remain longer by myself : I must go to Mrs. Fairfax .
 You repeated to yourself this morning the brief scene of last night ? -- Cover your face and be ashamed !
 For herself , she did nothing but caper about in the front chambers , jump on and off the bedsteads , and lie on the mattresses and piled-up bolsters and pillows before the enormous fires roaring in the chimneys .
 Still , now and then , I received a damping check to my cheerfulness ; and was , in spite of myself , thrown back on the region of doubts and portents , and dark conjectures .
 Only one hour in the twenty-four did she pass with her fellow-servants below ; all the rest of her time was spent in some low-ceiled , oaken chamber of the second storey : there she sat and sewed -- and probably laughed drearily to herself , -- as companionless as a prisoner in his dungeon .
 For myself , I had no need to make any change ; I should not be called upon to quit my sanctum of the schoolroom ; for a sanctum it was now become to me , -- `` a very pleasant refuge in time of trouble . ''
 `` Yaas , to be sure I do , '' drawled Lord Ingram ; `` and the poor old stick used to cry out ' Oh you villains childs ! ' -- and then we sermonised her on the presumption of attempting to teach such clever blades as we were , when she was herself so ignorant . ''
 Yes ; the future bridegroom , Mr. Rochester himself , exercised over his intended a ceaseless surveillance ; and it was from this sagacity -- this guardedness of his -- this perfect , clear consciousness of his fair one 's defects -- this obvious absence of passion in his sentiments towards her , that my ever- torturing pain arose .
 I have seen in his face a far different expression from that which hardens it now while she is so vivaciously accosting him ; but then it came of itself : it was not elicited by meretricious arts and calculated manoeuvres ; and one had but to accept it -- to answer what he asked without pretension , to address him when needful without grimace -- and it increased and grew kinder and more genial , and warmed one like a fostering sunbeam .
 I must show her into a room by herself , and then those who wish to consult her must go to her one by one . "
 " It is not my mission to listen to her before the vulgar herd either : I mean to have her all to myself .
 `` She says , sir , that she 'll have no gentlemen ; they need not trouble themselves to come near her ; nor , '' he added , with difficulty suppressing a titter , `` any ladies either , except the young , and single . ''
 An extinguished candle stood on the table ; she was bending over the fire , and seemed reading in a little black book , like a prayer-book , by the light of the blaze : she muttered the words to herself , as most old women do , while she read ; she did not desist immediately on my entrance : it appeared she wished to finish a paragraph .
 `` Not I. The utmost I hope is , to save money enough out of my earnings to set up a school some day in a little house rented by myself . ''
 I said this rather to myself than to the gipsy , whose strange talk , voice , manner , had by this time wrapped me in a kind of dream .
 It depends on yourself to stretch out your hand , and take it up : but whether you will do so , is the problem I study .
 I 'll fetch a surgeon for you now , myself : you 'll be able to be removed by morning , I hope .
 According as the shifting obscurity and flickering gleam hovered here or glanced there , it was now the bearded physician , Luke , that bent his brow ; now St. John 's long hair that waved ; and anon the devilish face of Judas , that grew out of the panel , and seemed gathering life and threatening a revelation of the arch-traitor -- of Satan himself -- in his subordinate 's form .
 `` Never fear -- I will take care of myself . ''
 Robert Leaven resumed -- " Missis had been out of health herself for some time : she had got very stout , but was not strong with it ; and the loss of money and fear of poverty were quite breaking her down .
 `` Yes ; and I will do it now ; '' and having directed him to the servants ' hall , and recommended him to the care of John 's wife , and the attentions of John himself , I went in search of Mr. Rochester .
 I still felt as a wanderer on the face of the earth ; but I experienced firmer trust in myself and my own powers , and less withering dread of oppression .
 So I addressed the housekeeper ; asked her to show me a room , told her I should probably be a visitor here for a week or two , had my trunk conveyed to my chamber , and followed it thither myself : I met Bessie on the landing .
 Provided with a case of pencils , and some sheets of paper , I used to take a seat apart from them , near the window , and busy myself in sketching fancy vignettes , representing any scene that happened momentarily to shape itself in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of imagination : a glimpse of sea between two rocks ; the rising moon , and a ship crossing its disk ; a group of reeds and water-flags , and a naiad 's head , crowned with lotus- flowers , rising out of them ; an elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow 's nest , under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom .
 The communications were renewed from day to day : they always ran on the same theme -- herself , her loves , and woes .
 Two hours she devoted to her diary ; two to working by herself in the kitchen-garden ; and one to the regulation of her accounts .
 Her own fortune she had taken care to secure ; and when her mother died -- and it was wholly improbable , she tranquilly remarked , that she should either recover or linger long -- she would execute a long-cherished project : seek a retirement where punctual habits would be permanently secured from disturbance , and place safe barriers between herself and a frivolous world .
 Instead of living for , in , and with yourself , as a reasonable being ought , you seek only to fasten your feebleness on some other person 's strength : if no one can be found willing to burden her or himself with such a fat , weak , puffy , useless thing , you cry out that you are ill-treated , neglected , miserable .
 `` After all , it is of no great importance , perhaps , '' she murmured to herself : `` and then I may get better ; and to humble myself so to her is painful . ''
 It is true , that while I worked , she would idle ; and I thought to myself , " If you and I were destined to live always together , cousin , we would commence matters on a different footing .
 I proposed to walk the distance quietly by myself ; and very quietly , after leaving my box in the ostler 's care , did I slip away from the George Inn , about six o 'clock of a June evening , and take the old road to Thornfield : a road which lay chiefly through fields , and was now little frequented .
 I will go back as soon as I can stir : I need not make an absolute fool of myself .
 What the deuce have you done with yourself this last month ? "
 He seated me and himself .
 " This very day I shall take you in the carriage to Millcote , and you must choose some dresses for yourself .
 `` I am not an angel , '' I asserted ; " and I will not be one till I die : I will be myself .
 `` That you may , my good little girl : there is not another being in the world has the same pure love for me as yourself -- for I lay that pleasant unction to my soul , Jane , a belief in your affection . ''
 I 'll be married in this lilac gingham : you may make a dressing-gown for yourself out of the pearl-grey silk , and an infinite series of waistcoats out of the black satin . " He chuckled ; he rubbed his hands .
 I like you more than I can say ; but I 'll not sink into a bathos of sentiment : and with this needle of repartee I 'll keep you from the edge of the gulf too ; and , moreover , maintain by its pungent aid that distance between you and myself most conducive to our real mutual advantage . "
 `` I will leave you by yourself , white dream , '' I said .
 The cloven halves were not broken from each other , for the firm base and strong roots kept them unsundered below ; though community of vitality was destroyed -- the sap could flow no more : their great boughs on each side were dead , and next winter 's tempests would be sure to fell one or both to earth : as yet , however , they might be said to form one tree -- a ruin , but an entire ruin .
 You call her a strange being yourself : from all you know , you have reason so to call her -- what did she do to me ? what to Mason ?
 `` Stop ! '' she cried in French . `` Look at yourself in the mirror : you have not taken one peep . ''
 The second stranger , who had hitherto lingered in the background , now drew near ; a pale face looked over the solicitor 's shoulder -- yes , it was Mason himself .
 He mused -- for ten minutes he held counsel with himself : he formed his resolve , and announced it -- " Enough ! all shall bolt out at once , like the bullet from the barrel .
 When your uncle received your letter intimating the contemplated union between yourself and Mr. Rochester , Mr. Mason , who was staying at Madeira to recruit his health , on his way back to Jamaica , happened to be with him .
 He could not then hasten to England himself , to extricate you from the snare into which you had fallen , but he implored Mr. Mason to lose no time in taking steps to prevent the false marriage .
 I was in my own room as usual -- just myself , without obvious change : nothing had smitten me , or scathed me , or maimed me .
 He put wine to my lips ; I tasted it and revived ; then I ate something he offered me , and was soon myself .
 " Sir , your wife is living : that is a fact acknowledged this morning by yourself .
 Out of pity to me and yourself , put your finger on my pulse , feel how it throbs , and -- beware ! "
 Oh , I have no respect for myself when I think of that act ! -- an agony of inward contempt masters me .
 Let her identity , her connection with yourself , be buried in oblivion : you are bound to impart them to no living being .
 Far from desiring to publish the connection , he became as anxious to conceal it as myself .
 The first I chose was Celine Varens -- another of those steps which make a man spurn himself when he recalls them .
 On a stile in Hay Lane I saw a quiet little figure sitting by itself .
 The next day I observed you -- myself unseen -- for half-an- hour , while you played with Adele in the gallery .
 The voice of Mrs. Fairfax , speaking to a servant in the hall , wakened you : and how curiously you smiled to and at yourself , Janet !
 " Do as I do : trust in God and yourself .
 " Mr. Rochester , I no more assign this fate to you than I grasp at it for myself .
 Still indomitable was the reply -- " _ I _ care for myself .
 Of yourself you could come with soft flight and nestle against my heart , if you would : seized against your will , you will elude the grasp like an essence -- you will vanish ere I inhale your fragrance .
 If you 've any followers -- housebreakers or such like -- anywhere near , you may tell them we are not by ourselves in the house ; we have a gentleman , and dogs , and guns . "
 `` What account can you give of yourself ? ''
 Never once in their dialogues did I hear a syllable of regret at the hospitality they had extended to me , or of suspicion of , or aversion to , myself .
 He pronounced it needless to send for a doctor : nature , he was sure , would manage best , left to herself .
 I am no beggar ; any more than yourself or your young ladies . "
 There was nothing like them in these parts , nor ever had been ; they had liked learning , all three , almost from the time they could speak ; and they had always been `` of a mak ' of their own . '' Mr. St. John , when he grew up , would go to college and be a parson ; and the girls , as soon as they left school , would seek places as governesses : for they had told her their father had some years ago lost a great deal of money by a man he had trusted turning bankrupt ; and as he was now not rich enough to give them fortunes , they must provide for themselves .
 Yes , and deems , and is bound to deem , himself honoured by the lot , and aspires but after the day when the cross of separation from fleshly ties shall be laid on his shoulders , and when the Head of that church-militant of whose humblest members he is one , shall give the word , ' Rise , follow Me ! ' "
 `` I was speaking of myself . ''
 He was never married , and had no near kindred but ourselves and one other person , not more closely related than we .
 A dog -- old Carlo , Mr. Rivers ' pointer , as I saw in a moment -- was pushing the gate with his nose , and St. John himself leant upon it with folded arms ; his brow knit , his gaze , grave almost to displeasure , fixed on me .
 " A year ago I was myself intensely miserable , because I thought I had made a mistake in entering the ministry : its uniform duties wearied me to death .
 `` I forgot ! '' she exclaimed , shaking her beautiful curled head , as if shocked at herself . " I am so giddy and thoughtless ! _ Do _ excuse me .
 Mr. St. John spoke almost like an automaton : himself only knew the effort it cost him thus to refuse .
 I learnt so much from himself in an inroad I once , despite his reserve , had the daring to make on his confidence .
 She made such a report of me to her father , that Mr. Oliver himself accompanied her next evening -- a tall , massive-featured , middle-aged , and grey-headed man , at whose side his lovely daughter looked like a bright flower near a hoary turret .
 `` As far as I can see , it would be wiser and more judicious if you were to take to yourself the original at once . ''
 Moreover , she is a sweet girl -- rather thoughtless ; but you would have sufficient thought for both yourself and her .
 `` Not at all , '' said he : " I care for myself when necessary . I am well now .
 It seems her career there was very honourable : from a pupil , she became a teacher , like yourself -- really it strikes me there are parallel points in her history and yours -- she left it to be a governess : there , again , your fates were analogous ; she undertook the education of the ward of a certain Mr. Rochester . "
 Were you to argue , object , and annoy me for a year , I could not forego the delicious pleasure of which I have caught a glimpse -- that of repaying , in part , a mighty obligation , and winning to myself lifelong friends . "
 `` You give it up very gleefully , '' said he ; `` I do n't quite understand your light-heartedness , because I can not tell what employment you propose to yourself as a substitute for the one you are relinquishing . What aim , what purpose , what ambition in life have you now ? ''
 And really , after a day or two of confusion worse confounded , it was delightful by degrees to invoke order from the chaos ourselves had made .
 St. John was a good man ; but I began to feel he had spoken truth of himself when he said he was hard and cold .
 He had performed an act of duty ; made an exertion ; felt his own strength to do and deny , and was on better terms with himself .
 He then went on to explain that Hindostanee was the language he was himself at present studying ; that , as he advanced , he was apt to forget the commencement ; that it would assist him greatly to have a pupil with whom he might again and again go over the elements , and so fix them thoroughly in his mind ; that his choice had hovered for some time between me and his sisters ; but that he had fixed on me because he saw I could sit at a task the longest of the three .
 This I could do in the beginning : soon ( for I know your powers ) you would be as strong and apt as myself , and would not require my help . "
 In the resolute readiness with which you cut your wealth into four shares , keeping but one to yourself , and relinquishing the three others to the claim of abstract justice , I recognised a soul that revelled in the flame and excitement of sacrifice .
 If I join St. John , I abandon half myself : if I go to India , I go to premature death .
 " And I will give the missionary my energies -- it is all he wants -- but not myself : that would be only adding the husk and shell to the kernel .
 `` Very well , '' I said shortly ; `` under the circumstances , quite as well as if I were either your real sister , or a man and a clergyman like yourself . ''
 `` It is what I want , '' he said , speaking to himself ; " it is just what I want .
 `` Ah ! you are afraid of yourself , '' he said , curling his lip .
 He has again and again explained that it is not himself , but his office he wishes to mate .
 All the house was still ; for I believe all , except St. John and myself , were now retired to rest .
 `` My journey is closed , '' I thought to myself .
 It fell again : the thought struck it : -- " Your master himself may be beyond the British Channel , for aught you know : and then , if he is at Thornfield Hall , towards which you hasten , who besides him is there ?
 " Yes , indeed was he ; and he went up to the attics when all was burning above and below , and got the servants out of their beds and helped them down himself , and went back to get his mad wife out of her cell .
 I stayed my step , almost my breath , and stood to watch him -- to examine him , myself unseen , and alas ! to him invisible .
 I have little left in myself -- I must have you .
 His countenance reminded one of a lamp quenched , waiting to be re-lit -- and alas ! it was not himself that could now kindle the lustre of animated expression : he was dependent on another for that office !
 He entered on the path he had marked for himself ; he pursues it still .
 There was nothing so very remarkable in that ; nor did Alice think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself , ' Oh dear ! Oh dear !
 ' Well ! ' thought Alice to herself , ' after such a fall as this , I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs !
 But do cats eat bats , I wonder ? ' And here Alice began to get rather sleepy , and went on saying to herself , in a dreamy sort of way , ' Do cats eat bats ?
 First , however , she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further : she felt a little nervous about this ; ' for it might end , you know , ' said Alice to herself , ' in my going out altogether , like a candle .
 ' Come , there 's no use in crying like that ! ' said Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute ! ' She generally gave herself very good advice , ( though she very seldom followed it ) , and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes ; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself , for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people .
 She ate a little bit , and said anxiously to herself , ' Which way ? Which way ? ' , holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing , and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size : to be sure , this generally happens when one eats cake , but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen , that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way .
 And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it . ' They must go by the carrier , ' she thought ; ' and how funny it 'll seem , sending presents to one 's own feet !
 ' You ought to be ashamed of yourself , ' said Alice , ' a great girl like you , ' ( she might well say this ) , ' to go on crying in this way !
 It was the White Rabbit returning , splendidly dressed , with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other : he came trotting along in a great hurry , muttering to himself as he came , ' Oh ! the Duchess , the Duchess ! Oh ! wo n't she be savage if I 've kept her waiting ! '
 And she began thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself , to see if she could have been changed for any of them .
 As she said these words her foot slipped , and in another moment , splash ! she was up to her chin in salt water . Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea , ' and in that case I can go back by railway , ' she said to herself .
 Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off , and she swam nearer to make out what it was : at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus , but then she remembered how small she was now , and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself .
 She is such a dear quiet thing , ' Alice went on , half to herself , as she swam lazily about in the pool , ' and she sits purring so nicely by the fire , licking her paws and washing her face -- and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse -- and she 's such a capital one for catching mice -- oh , I beg your pardon ! ' cried Alice again , for this time the Mouse was bristling all over , and she felt certain it must be really offended . ' We wo n't talk about her any more if you 'd rather not . '
 ' Why , ' said the Dodo , ' the best way to explain it is to do it . ' ( And , as you might like to try the thing yourself , some winter day , I will tell you how the Dodo managed it . )
 ' I wish I had n't mentioned Dinah ! ' she said to herself in a melancholy tone . ' Nobody seems to like her , down here , and I 'm sure she 's the best cat in the world !
 It was the White Rabbit , trotting slowly back again , and looking anxiously about as it went , as if it had lost something ; and she heard it muttering to itself ' The Duchess ! The Duchess !
 ' He took me for his housemaid , ' she said to herself as she ran . ' How surprised he 'll be when he finds out who I am !
 ' How queer it seems , ' Alice said to herself , ' to be going messages for a rabbit ! I suppose Dinah 'll be sending me on messages next ! '
 There was no label this time with the words ' DRINK ME , ' but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips . ' I know something interesting is sure to happen , ' she said to herself , ' whenever I eat or drink anything ; so I 'll just see what this bottle does .
 She hastily put down the bottle , saying to herself ' That 's quite enough -- I hope I sha n't grow any more -- As it is , I ca n't get out at the door -- I do wish I had n't drunk quite so much ! '
 Still she went on growing , and , as a last resource , she put one arm out of the window , and one foot up the chimney , and said to herself ' Now I can do no more , whatever happens .
 Alice heard it say to itself ' Then I 'll go round and get in at the window . '
 She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could , and waited till she heard a little animal ( she could n't guess of what sort it was ) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her : then , saying to herself ' This is Bill , ' she gave one sharp kick , and waited to see what would happen next .
 There was a dead silence instantly , and Alice thought to herself , ' I wonder what they will do next !
 ' A barrowful of what ? ' thought Alice ; but she had not long to doubt , for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the window , and some of them hit her in the face . ' I 'll put a stop to this , ' she said to herself , and shouted out , ' You 'd better not do that again ! ' which produced another dead silence .
 ' The first thing I 've got to do , ' said Alice to herself , as she wandered about in the wood , ' is to grow to my right size again ; and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden .
 There was a large mushroom growing near her , about the same height as herself ; and when she had looked under it , and on both sides of it , and behind it , it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it .
 ' I ca n't explain myself , I 'm afraid , sir ' said Alice , ' because I 'm not myself , you see . '
 And she thought of herself , ' I wish the creatures would n't be so easily offended ! '
 ' One side of what ? The other side of what ? ' thought Alice to herself .
 ' And now which is which ? ' she said to herself , and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect : the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin : it had struck her foot !
 It was so long since she had been anything near the right size , that it felt quite strange at first ; but she got used to it in a few minutes , and began talking to herself , as usual . ' Come , there 's half my plan done now !
 The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter , nearly as large as himself , and this he handed over to the other , saying , in a solemn tone , ' For the Duchess .
 He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking , and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil . ' But perhaps he ca n't help it , ' she said to herself ; ' his eyes are so very nearly at the top of his head .
 It was , no doubt : only Alice did not like to be told so . ' It 's really dreadful , ' she muttered to herself , ' the way all the creatures argue .
 ' There 's certainly too much pepper in that soup ! ' Alice said to herself , as well as she could for sneezing .
 Alice was just beginning to think to herself , ' Now , what am I to do with this creature when I get it home ? ' when it grunted again , so violently , that she looked down into its face in some alarm .
 ' If it had grown up , ' she said to herself , ' it would have made a dreadfully ugly child : but it makes rather a handsome pig , I think . ' And she began thinking over other children she knew , who might do very well as pigs , and was just saying to herself , ' if one only knew the right way to change them -- ' when she was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off .
 Alice waited a little , half expecting to see it again , but it did not appear , and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in which the March Hare was said to live . ' I 've seen hatters before , ' she said to herself ; ' the March Hare will be much the most interesting , and perhaps as this is May it wo n't be raving mad -- at least not so mad as it was in March . '
 It was so large a house , that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom , and raised herself to about two feet high : even then she walked up towards it rather timidly , saying to herself ' Suppose it should be raving mad after all !
 Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of living would be like , but it puzzled her too much , so she went on : ' But why did they live at the bottom of a well ? '
 ' There 's no such thing ! ' Alice was beginning very angrily , but the Hatter and the March Hare went ' Sh ! sh ! ' and the Dormouse sulkily remarked , ' If you ca n't be civil , you 'd better finish the story for yourself . '
 Once more she found herself in the long hall , and close to the little glass table . ' Now , I 'll manage better this time , ' she said to herself , and began by taking the little golden key , and unlocking the door that led into the garden .
 ' My name is Alice , so please your Majesty , ' said Alice very politely ; but she added , to herself , ' Why , they 're only a pack of cards , after all .
 She was looking about for some way of escape , and wondering whether she could get away without being seen , when she noticed a curious appearance in the air : it puzzled her very much at first , but , after watching it a minute or two , she made it out to be a grin , and she said to herself ' It 's the Cheshire Cat : now I shall have somebody to talk to . '
 Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper , and thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when they met in the kitchen . ' When I 'm a Duchess , ' she said to herself , ( not in a very hopeful tone though ) , ' I wo n't have any pepper in my kitchen at all .
 ' Ah , well ! It means much the same thing , ' said the Duchess , digging her sharp little chin into Alice 's shoulder as she added , ' and the moral of that is -- `` Take care of the sense , and the sounds will take care of themselves . '' '
 ' How fond she is of finding morals in things ! ' Alice thought to herself .
 As they walked off together , Alice heard the King say in a low voice , to the company generally , ' You are all pardoned . ' ' Come , that 's a good thing ! ' she said to herself , for she had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered .
 The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes : then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight : then it chuckled . ' What fun ! ' said the Gryphon , half to itself , half to Alice .
 Alice thought to herself , ' I do n't see how he can even finish , if he does n't begin . ' But she waited patiently .
 ' You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question , ' added the Gryphon ; and then they both sat silent and looked at poor Alice , who felt ready to sink into the earth .
 Alice had never been in a court of justice before , but she had read about them in books , and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there . ' That 's the judge , ' she said to herself , ' because of his great wig . '
 She said this last word two or three times over to herself , being rather proud of it : for she thought , and rightly too , that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all . However , ' jury-men ' would have done just as well .
 Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list , feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like , ' -- for they have n't got much evidence yet , ' she said to herself .
 She soon got it out again , and put it right ; ' not that it signifies much , ' she said to herself ; ' I should think it would be quite as much use in the trial one way up as the other . '
 ' Unimportant , of course , I meant , ' the King hastily said , and went on to himself in an undertone , ' important -- unimportant -- unimportant -- important -- ' as if he were trying which word sounded best .
 Some of the jury wrote it down ' important , ' and some ' unimportant . ' Alice could see this , as she was near enough to look over their slates ; ' but it does n't matter a bit , ' she thought to herself .
 My notion was that you had been ( Before she had this fit ) An obstacle that came between Him , and ourselves , and it .
 Do n't let him know she liked them best , For this must ever be A secret , kept from all the rest , Between yourself and me . '
 ' All right , so far , ' said the King , and he went on muttering over the verses to himself : ' `` We know it to be true -- '' that 's the jury , of course -- `` I gave her one , they gave him two -- '' why , that must be what he did with the tarts , you know -- '
 First , she dreamed of little Alice herself , and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee , and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers -- she could hear the very tones of her voice , and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that would always get into her eyes -- and still as she listened , or seemed to listen , the whole place around her became alive the strange creatures of her little sister 's dream .
 Lastly , she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers would , in the after-time , be herself a grown woman ; and how she would keep , through all her riper years , the simple and loving heart of her childhood : and how she would gather about her other little children , and make their eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale , perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago : and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows , and find a pleasure in all their simple joys , remembering her own child-life , and the happy summer days .
 When he went for walks he talked to the servant , who , like himself , came from the country .
 But at the end of his third year his parents withdrew him from the school to make him study medicine , convinced that he could even take his degree by himself .
 Then at the end of a week she departed , after a thousand injunctions to be good now that he was going to be left to himself .
 She excused him , threw the blame of his failure on the injustice of the examiners , encouraged him a little , and took upon herself to set matters straight .
 Charles had seen in marriage the advent of an easier life , thinking he would be more free to do as he liked with himself and his money . But his wife was master ; he had to say this and not say that in company , to fast every Friday , dress as she liked , harass at her bidding those patients who did not pay . She opened his letter , watched his comings and goings , and listened at the partition-wall when women came to consult him in his surgery .
 `` So it is for this , '' she said to herself , " that his face beams when he goes to see her , and that he puts on his new waistcoat at the risk of spoiling it with the rain . Ah ! that woman !
 And , according to what she was saying , her voice was clear , sharp , or , on a sudden all languor , drawn out in modulations that ended almost in murmurs as she spoke to herself , now joyous , opening big naive eyes , then with her eyelids half closed , her look full of boredom , her thoughts wandering .
 He did not willingly take his hands out of his pockets , and did not spare expense in all that concerned himself , liking to eat well , to have good fires , and to sleep well .
 When , therefore , he perceived that Charles 's cheeks grew red if near his daughter , which meant that he would propose for her one of these days , he chewed the cud of the matter beforehand . He certainly thought him a little meagre , and not quite the son-in-law he would have liked , but he was said to be well brought-up , economical , very learned , and no doubt would not make too many difficulties about the dowry . Now , as old Rouault would soon be forced to sell twenty-two acres of `` his property , '' as he owed a good deal to the mason , to the harness-maker , and as the shaft of the cider-press wanted renewing , `` If he asks for her , '' he said to himself , `` I 'll give her to him . ''
 Then came the married pair , the relations , the friends , all following pell-mell ; the children stayed behind amusing themselves plucking the bell-flowers from oat-ears , or playing amongst themselves unseen .
 When he saw that the rest were far behind he stopped to take breath , slowly rosined his bow , so that the strings should sound more shrilly , then set off again , by turns lowering and raising his neck , the better to mark time for himself .
 When Charles came to the Bertaux for the first time , she thought herself quite disillusioned , with nothing more to learn , and nothing more to feel .
 He told her , one after the other , the people he had met , the villages where he had been , the prescriptions he had written , and , well pleased with himself , he finished the remainder of the boiled beef and onions , picked pieces off the cheese , munched an apple , emptied his water-bottle , and then went to bed , and lay on his back and snored .
 Then gradually her ideas took definite shape , and , sitting on the grass that she dug up with little prods of her sunshade , Emma repeated to herself ,
 Then noting the melancholy face of the graceful animal , who yawned slowly , she softened , and comparing her to herself , spoke to her aloud as to somebody in trouble whom one is consoling .
 Everyone was waltzing , Mademoiselle d 'Andervilliers herself and the Marquis ; only the guests staying at the castle were still there , about a dozen persons .
 Whenever the Wednesday came round she said to herself as she awoke , `` Ah ! I was there a week - a fortnight - three weeks ago . ''
 At night , when the carriers passed under her windows in their carts singing the `` Marjolaine , '' she awoke , and listened to the noise of the iron-bound wheels , which , as they gained the country road , was soon deadened by the soil . `` They will be there to-morrow ! '' she said to herself .
 His work done , he did not come back again all day , for Charles on his return put up his horse himself , unsaddled him and put on the halter , while the servant-girl brought a bundle of straw and threw it as best she could into the manger .
 She had bought herself a blotting book , writing case , pen-holder , and envelopes , although she had no one to write to ; she dusted her what-not , looked at herself in the glass , picked up a book , and then , dreaming between the lines , let it drop on her knees .
 Sometimes Emma tucked the red borders of his under-vest unto his waistcoat , rearranged his cravat , and threw away the dirty gloves he was going to put on ; and this was not , as he fancied , for himself ; it was for herself , by a diffusion of egotism , of nervous irritation .
 Sewing irritated her . `` I have read everything , '' she said to herself .
 She now let everything in her household take care of itself , and Madame Bovary senior , when she came to spend part of Lent at Tostes , was much surprised at the change .
 She ordered dishes for herself , then she did not touch them ; one day drank only pure milk , the next cups of tea by the dozen .
 He smoked in the room , spat on the firedogs , talked farming , calves , cows , poultry , and municipal council , so that when he left she closed the door on him with a feeling of satisfaction that surprised even herself .
 The little cemetery that surrounds it , closed in by a wall breast high , is so full of graves that the old stones , level with the ground , form a continuous pavement , on which the grass of itself has marked out regular green squares .
 The market , that is to say , a tiled roof supported by some twenty posts , occupies of itself about half the public square of Yonville .
 I tell you again you are doing yourself harm , much harm !
 `` It is n't beggars like him that 'll frighten us , '' interrupted the landlady , shrugging her fat shoulders . `` Come , come , Monsieur Homais ; as long as the ' Lion d 'Or ' exists people will come to it . We 've feathered our nest ; while one of these days you 'll find the ' Cafe Francais ' closed with a big placard on the shutters . Change my billiard-table ! '' she went on , speaking to herself , `` the table that comes in so handy for folding the washing , and on which , in the hunting season , I have slept six visitors ! But that dawdler , Hivert , does n't come ! ''
 Myself , for example , how often has it happened to me to look on the bureau for my pen to write a label , and to find , after all , that I had put it behind my ear ! "
 And I ca n't admit of an old boy of a God who takes walks in his garden with a cane in his hand , who lodges his friends in the belly of whales , dies uttering a cry , and rises again at the end of three days ; things absurd in themselves , and completely opposed , moreover , to all physical laws , which prove to us , by the way , that priests have always wallowed in turpid ignorance , in which they would fain engulf the people with them . "
 `` Moreover , '' said the druggist , `` the practice of medicine is not very hard work in our part of the world , for the state of our roads allows us the use of gigs , and generally , as the farmers are prosperous , they pay pretty well . We have , medically speaking , besides the ordinary cases of enteritis , bronchitis , bilious affections , etc . , now and then a few intermittent fevers at harvest-time ; but on the whole , little of a serious nature , nothing special to note , unless it be a great deal of scrofula , due , no doubt , to the deplorable hygienic conditions of our peasant dwellings . Ah ! you will find many prejudices to combat , Monsieur Bovary , much obstinacy of routine , with which all the efforts of your science will daily come into collision ; for people still have recourse to novenas , to relics , to the priest , rather than come straight to the doctor or the chemist . The climate , however , is not , truth to tell , bad , and we even have a few nonagenarians in our parish . The thermometer ( I have made some observations ) falls in winter to 4 degrees Centigrade at the outside , which gives us 24 degrees Reaumur as the maximum , or otherwise 54 degrees Fahrenheit ( English scale ) , not more . And , as a matter of fact , we are sheltered from the north winds by the forest of Argueil on the one side , from the west winds by the St. Jean range on the other ; and this heat , moreover , which , on account of the aqueous vapours given off by the river and the considerable number of cattle in the fields , which , as you know , exhale much ammonia , that is to say , nitrogen , hydrogen and oxygen ( no , nitrogen and hydrogen alone ) , and which sucking up into itself the humus from the ground , mixing together all those different emanations , unites them into a stack , so to say , and combining with the electricity diffused through the atmosphere , when there is any , might in the long run , as in tropical countries , engender insalubrious miasmata - this heat , I say , finds itself perfectly tempered on the side whence it comes , or rather whence it should come - that is to say , the southern side - by the south-eastern winds , which , having cooled themselves passing over the Seine , reach us sometimes all at once like breezes from Russia . ''
 " A cousin of mine who travelled in Switzerland last year told me that one could not picture to oneself the poetry of the lakes , the charm of the waterfalls , the gigantic effect of the glaciers .
 For myself , living here far from the world , this is my one distraction ; but Yonville affords so few resources . "
 He had knocked about the world , he talked about Berlin , Vienna , and Strasbourg , of his soldier times , of the mistresses he had had , the grand luncheons of which he had partaken ; then he was amiable , and sometimes even , either on the stairs , or in the garden , would seize hold of her waist , crying , `` Charles , look out for yourself . ''
 `` How bored I am ! '' he said to himself , `` how bored I am ! ''
 Binet , a few shopkeepers , two or three publicans , the cure , and finally , Monsieur Tuvache , the mayor , with his two sons , rich , crabbed , obtuse persons , who farmed their own lands and had feasts among themselves , bigoted to boot , and quite unbearable companions .
 `` Ah ! '' she said to herself , `` he carried a knife in his pocket like a peasant . ''
 `` How good I was ! '' she said to herself , thinking of the scarves .
 She no longer grumbled as formerly at taking a turn in the garden ; what he proposed was always done , although she did not understand the wishes to which she submitted without a murmur ; and when Leon saw him by his fireside after dinner , his two hands on his stomach , his two feet on the fender , his two cheeks red with feeding , his eyes moist with happiness , the child crawling along the carpet , and this woman with the slender waist who came behind his arm-chair to kiss his forehead : `` What madness ! '' he said to himself . `` And how to reach her ! ''
 Then , pride , and joy of being able to say to herself , `` I am virtuous , '' and to look at herself in the glass taking resigned poses , consoled her a little for the sacrifice she believed she was making .
 Her own gentleness to herself made her rebel against him .
 The fire was out , the clock went on ticking , and Emma vaguely marvelled at this calm of all things while within herself was such tumult .
 Then watching her sleep , the little anxiety she felt gradually wore off , and she seemed very stupid to herself , and very good to have been so worried just now at so little .
 When the moment for the farewells had come , Madame Homais wept , Justin sobbed ; Homais , as a man of nerve , concealed his emotion ; he wished to carry his friend 's overcoat himself as far as the gate of the notary , who was taking Leon to Rouen in his carriage .
 The light fell on it as on a piece of marble , to the curve of the eyebrows , without one 's being able to guess what Emma was seeing on the horizon or what she was thinking within herself .
 Mind the cold ; take care of yourself ; look after yourself . "
 A woman who had laid on herself such sacrifices could well allow herself certain whims . She bought a Gothic prie-dieu , and in a month spent fourteen francs on lemons for polishing her nails ; she wrote to Rouen for a blue cashmere gown ; she chose one of Lheureux 's finest scarves , and wore it knotted around her waist over her dressing-gown ; and , with closed blinds and a book in her hand , she lay stretched out on a couch in this garb .
 Oh , yes ! you just talk to me , boast about yourself !
 `` She is very pretty , '' he said to himself ; " she is very pretty , this doctor 's wife .
 Standing on her kitchen-steps she muttered to herself ,
 " Do you think that to be an agriculturist it is necessary to have tilled the earth or fattened fowls oneself ?
 Madame Bovary again took Rodolphe 's arm ; he went on as if speaking to himself -
 `` This is no longer the time , gentlemen , when civil discord ensanguined our public places , when the landlord , the business-man , the working-man himself , falling asleep at night , lying down to peaceful sleep , trembled lest he should be awakened suddenly by the noise of incendiary tocsins , when the most subversive doctrines audaciously sapped foundations . ''
 For how should we clothe ourselves , how nourish ourselves , without the agriculturist ?
 " Apply yourselves , above all , to the amelioration of the soil , to good manures , to the development of the equine , bovine , ovine , and porcine races .
 And from the sleeves of her red jacket looked out two large hands with knotty joints , the dust of barns , the potash of washing the grease of wools had so encrusted , roughened , hardened these that they seemed dirty , although they had been rinsed in clear water ; and by dint of long service they remained half open , as if to bear humble witness for themselves of so much suffering endured .
 The day after the show he had said to himself - `` We must n't go back too soon ; that would be a mistake . ''
 It was the first time that Emma had heard such words spoken to herself , and her pride , like one who reposes bathed in warmth , expanded softly and fully at this glowing language .
 Rodolphe had put on high soft boots , saying to himself that no doubt she had never seen anything like them . In fact , Emma was charmed with his appearance as he stood on the landing in his great velvet coat and white corduroy breeches .
 Then she examined the apartment , opened the drawers of the tables , combed her hair with his comb , and looked at herself in his shaving-glass .
 Something stronger than herself forced her to him ; so much so , that one day , seeing her come unexpectedly , he frowned as one put out .
 `` Ah ! very good ! very good ! For myself , I am here , just as you see me , since break of day ; but the weather is so muggy , that unless one had the bird at the mouth of the gun - ''
 Good-day , doctor , `` ( for the chemist much enjoyed pronouncing the word '' doctor , " as if addressing another by it reflected on himself some of the grandeur that he found in it ) .
 " For myself , I am very well , except for a cold I caught the other day at the fair at Yvetot , where I had gone to hire a shepherd , having turned away mine because he was too dainty .
 The more she gave up herself to the one , the more she loathed the other .
 `` How afraid you are of spoiling them ! '' said the servant , who was n't so particular when she cleaned them herself , because as soon as the stuff of the boots was no longer fresh madame handed them over to her .
 And , certain of his discovery , he went out repeating to himself in an undertone , and with his usual low whistle -
 He ran to his mother ; she was beside herself . She stammered
 `` What a woman ! '' he said to himself , watching her as she went .
 `` We shall have others , '' replied Emma ; and , as if speaking to herself : " Yet , it will be good to travel .
 We shall be alone , all to ourselves eternally .
 In fact , these women , rushing at once into his thoughts , cramped each other and lessened , as reduced to a uniform level of love that equalised them all . So taking handfuls of the mixed-up letters , he amused himself for some moments with letting them fall in cascades from his right into his left hand . At last , bored and weary , Rodolphe took back the box to the cupboard , saying to himself , `` What a lot of rubbish ! '' Which summed up his opinion ; for pleasures , like schoolboys in a school courtyard , had so trampled upon his heart that no green thing grew there , and that which passed through it , more heedless than children , did not even , like them , leave a name carved upon the wall .
 `` That 's a word that always tells , '' he said to himself .
 `` Now how am I to sign ? '' he said to himself . " ' Yours devotedly ? '
 She was free . She advanced , looking at the paving-stones , saying to herself , `` Come ! come ! ''
 All her ideas seemed to be limited to the care of herself .
 Her soul , tortured by pride , at length found rest in Christian humility , and , tasting the joy of weakness , she saw within herself the destruction of her will , that must have left a wide entrance for the inroads of heavenly grace .
 All her small fault-findings faded before the poetry of the part that absorbed her ; and , drawn towards this man by the illusion of the character , she tried to imagine to herself his life - that life resonant , extraordinary , splendid , and that might have been hers if fate had willed it .
 " Himself !
 " You were downstairs in the ante-room , ready to go out , standing on the last stair ; you were wearing a bonnet with small blue flowers ; and without any invitation from you , in spite of myself , I went with you .
 It was the first time that he had bought flowers for a woman , and his breast , as he smelt them , swelled with pride , as if this homage that he meant for another had recoiled upon himself .
 The beadle , standing aloof , was inwardly angry at this individual who took the liberty of admiring the cathedral by himself .
 It was thus the druggist called a small room under the leads , full of the utensils and the goods of his trade . He often spent long hours there alone , labelling , decanting , and doing up again ; and he looked upon it not as a simple store , but as a veritable sanctuary , whence there afterwards issued , elaborated by his hands , all sorts of pills , boluses , infusions , lotions , and potions , that would bear far and wide his celebrity . No one in the world set foot there , and he respected it so , that he swept it himself . Finally , if the pharmacy , open to all comers , was the spot where he displayed his pride , the Capharnaum was the refuge where , egoistically concentrating himself , Homais delighted in the exercise of his predilections , so that Justin 's thoughtlessness seemed to him a monstrous piece of irreverence , and , redder than the currants , he repeated -
 This poor piano , that had given her vanity so much satisfaction - to see it go was to Bovary like the indefinable suicide of a part of herself .
 She asked him for some verses - some verses `` for herself , '' a `` love poem '' in honour of her .
 He was not joking ; but vanity getting the better of all prudence , Leon , in spite of himself protested .
 She was constantly promising herself a profound felicity on her next journey . Then she confessed to herself that she felt nothing extraordinary .
 `` Do n't see them ; do n't go out ; think only of ourselves ; love me ! ''
 How she longed for the ineffable sentiments of love that she had tried to figure to herself out of books !
 `` Yet I love him , '' she said to herself .
 He explained everything through her old nervous illness , and reproaching himself with having taken her infirmities for faults , accused himself of egotism , and longed to go and take her in his arms .
 `` Ah , no ! '' he said to himself ; `` I should worry her . ''
 In fact someone had sent his mother a long anonymous letter to warn her that he was `` ruining himself with a married woman , '' and the good lady at once conjuring up the eternal bugbear of families , the vague pernicious creature , the siren , the monster , who dwells fantastically in depths of love , wrote to Lawyer Dubocage , his employer , who behaved perfectly in the affair . He kept him for three quarters of an hour trying to open his eyes , to warn him of the abyss into which he was falling . Such an intrigue would damage him later on , when he set up for himself . He implored him to break with her , and , if he would not make this sacrifice in his own interest , to do it at least for his , Dubocage 's sake .
 Everything , even herself , was now unbearable to her .
 `` Come what may come ! '' she said to herself . " And then , who knows ?
 Then she tried to move him , and , growing moved herself , she began telling him about the poorness of her home , her worries , her wants . He could understand that ; an elegant woman ! and , without leaving off eating , he had turned completely round towards her , so that his knee brushed against her boot , whose sole curled round as it smoked against the stove .
 `` What a wretch ! what a scoundrel ! what an infamy ! '' she said to herself , as she fled with nervous steps beneath the aspens of the path . The disappointment of her failure increased the indignation of her outraged modesty ; it seemed to her that Providence pursued her implacably , and , strengthening herself in her pride , she had never felt so much esteem for herself nor so much contempt for others . A spirit of warfare transformed her . She would have liked to strike all men , to spit in their faces , to crush them , and she walked rapidly straight on , pale , quivering , maddened , searching the empty horizon with tear-dimmed eyes , and as it were rejoicing in the hate that was choking her .
 `` What 's bothering her ? '' said the nurse to herself . `` Why has she come here ? ''
 Rodolphe interrupted her , declaring he was `` hard up '' himself .
 She remained lost in stupor , and having no more consciousness of herself than through the beating of her arteries , that she seemed to hear bursting forth like a deafening music filling all the fields .
 His colleague was by no means of this opinion , and , as he said of himself , `` never beating about the bush , '' he prescribed , an emetic in order to empty the stomach completely .
 She cursed the poison , railed at it , and implored it to be quick , and thrust away with her stiffened arms everything that Charles , in more agony than herself , tried to make her drink .
 Everyone in his hospital trembled when he was angry ; and his students so revered him that they tried , as soon as they were themselves in practice , to imitate him as much as possible .
 Homais dilated in Amphytrionic pride , and the affecting thought of Bovary vaguely contributed to his pleasure by a kind of egotistic reflex upon himself .
 The cure wiped his fingers , threw the bit of cotton dipped in oil into the fire , and came and sat down by the dying woman , to tell her that she must now blend her sufferings with those of Jesus Christ and abandon herself to the divine mercy .
 Felicite knelt down before the crucifix , and the druggist himself slightly bent his knees , while Monsieur Canivet looked out vaguely at the Place .
 He recalled stories of catalepsy , the marvels of magnetism , and he said to himself that by willing it with all his force he might perhaps succeed in reviving her . Once he even bent towards he , and cried in a low voice , " Emma !
 He said to himself that no doubt they would save her ; the doctors would discover some remedy surely . He remembered all the miraculous cures he had been told about .
 He imagined to himself she had gone on a long journey , far away , for a long time .
 The women followed in black cloaks with turned-down hoods ; each of them carried in her hands a large lighted candle , and Charles felt himself growing weaker at this continual repetition of prayers and torches , beneath this oppressive odour of wax and of cassocks .
 He sent her kisses ; he dragged himself towards the grave , to engulf himself with her .
 The druggist continued , `` Do you know that but for me he would have committed some fatal attempt upon himself ? ''
 `` Perhaps they loved one another platonically , '' he said to himself .
 He was enthusiastic about the hydro-electric Pulvermacher chains ; he wore one himself , and when at night he took off his flannel vest , Madame Homais stood quite dazzled before the golden spiral beneath which he was hidden , and felt her ardour redouble for this man more bandaged than a Scythian , and splendid as one of the Magi .
 But the landlady only listened with half an ear , having troubles like himself .
 The man who wrote that word upon the wall disappeared from the midst of the generations of man many centuries ago ; the word , in its turn , has been effaced from the wall of the church ; the church will , perhaps , itself soon disappear from the face of the earth .
 Let the reader picture to himself now , this immense , oblong hall , illuminated by the pallid light of a January day , invaded by a motley and noisy throng which drifts along the walls , and eddies round the seven pillars , and he will have a confused idea of the whole effect of the picture , whose curious details we shall make an effort to indicate with more precision .
 At length one of these , as fat , short , and venerable as himself , came to his rescue .
 Gringoire commented on it bitterly to himself .
 Moreover , he had another cause for solicitude , and his mien as wholly preoccupied with it , which entered the estrade the same time as himself ; this was the embassy from Flanders .
 This strange accompaniment , which rendered it difficult to follow the piece , made Gringoire all the more indignant because he could not conceal from himself the fact that the interest was continually increasing , and that all his work required was a chance of being heard .
 Let the reader picture to himself a series of visages presenting successively all geometrical forms , from the triangle to the trapezium , from the cone to the polyhedron ; all human expressions , from wrath to lewdness ; all ages , from the wrinkles of the new  born babe to the wrinkles of the aged and dying ; all religious phantasmagories , from Faun to Beelzebub ; all animal profiles , from the maw to the beak , from the jowl to the muzzle .
 Let the reader picture to himself in bacchanal form , Salvator Rosa 's battle .
 He had hardened himself against adversity .    `` Continue ! '' he had said for the third time , to his comedians , speaking machines ; then as he was marching with great strides in front of the marble table , a fancy seized him to go and appear in his turn at the aperture of the chapel , were it only for the pleasure of making a grimace at that ungrateful populace .   `` But no , that would not be worthy of us ; no , vengeance ! let us combat until the end , '' he repeated to himself ; " the power of poetry over people is great ; I will bring them back .
 Such was the pope whom the fools had just chosen for themselves .
 `` Good , '' he said to himself , `` there go all the mischief  makers . '' Unfortunately , all the mischief  makers constituted the entire audience .
 `` Come , '' said Gringoire to himself , with a sigh , `` the others are listening . ''
 After reflecting a moment , temporarily sheltered beneath the little wicket of the prison of the treasurer of the Sainte  Chappelle , as to the shelter which he would select for the night , having all the pavements of Paris to choose from , he remembered to have noticed the week previously in the Rue de la Savaterie , at the door of a councillor of the parliament , a stepping stone for mounting a mule , and to have said to himself that that stone would furnish , on occasion , a very excellent pillow for a mendicant or a poet .
 `` At least , '' he said to himself , " I shall there have a firebrand of joy wherewith to warm myself , and I can sup on some crumbs of the three great armorial bearings of royal sugar which have been erected on the public refreshment  stall of the city .
 The persons who , like ourselves , never cross the Place de Grve without casting a glance of pity and sympathy on that poor turret strangled between two hovels of the time of Louis XV . , can easily reconstruct in their minds the aggregate of edifices to which it belonged , and find again entire in it the ancient Gothic place of the fifteenth century .
 `` Accursed Parisians ! '' he said to himself ( for Gringoire , like a true dramatic poet , was subject to monologues ) " there they are obstructing my fire !
 `` In truth , '' said Gringoire to himself , `` she is a salamander , she is a nymph , she is a goddess , she is a bacchante of the Menelean Mount ! ''
 As for himself , he had never seen the blockade so complete ; he heard his stomach sounding a parley , and he considered it very much out of place that evil destiny should capture his philosophy by famine .
 The words which she sang were in a tongue unknown to Gringoire , and which seemed to him to be unknown to herself , so little relation did the expression which she imparted to her song bear to the sense of the words .
 Meanwhile , the other spectators murmured like himself ; `` To the devil with the sacked nun ! '' said some of them .
 `` Why not ? '' he said to himself .
 `` After all , '' he half thought to himself , " she must lodge somewhere ; gypsies have kindly hearts .
 Gringoire had become involved , in his pursuit of the gypsy , in that inextricable labyrinth of alleys , squares , and closed courts which surround the ancient sepulchre of the Saints  Innocents , and which resembles a ball of thread tangled by a cat . `` Here are streets which possess but little logic ! '' said Gringoire , lost in the thousands of circuits which returned upon themselves incessantly , but where the young girlpursued a road which seemed familiar to her , without hesitation and with a step which became ever more rapid .
 `` Whence comes this chill ? '' he said abruptly , to himself .
 `` The mud of Paris , '' he said to himself   for decidedly he thought that he was sure that the gutter would prove his refuge for the night ; and what can one do in a refuge , except dream ?   " the mud of Paris is particularly stinking ; it must contain a great deal of volatile and nitric salts .
 `` That would be strange ! '' he said to himself .
 A group of children , those little bare  footed savages who have always roamed the pavements of Paris under the eternal name of ~ gamins ~ , and who , when we were also children ourselves , threw stones at all of us in the afternoon , when we came out of school , because our trousers were not torn   a swarm of these young scamps rushed towards the square where Gringoire lay , with shouts and laughter which seemed to pay but little heed to the sleep of the neighbors .
 After having run for some time at the top of his speed , without knowing whither , knocking his head against many a street corner , leaping many a gutter , traversing many an alley , many a court , many a square , seeking flight and passage through all the meanderings of the ancient passages of the Halles , exploring in his panic terror what the fine Latin of the maps calls ~ tota via , cheminum et viaria ~ , our poet suddenly halted for lack of breath in the first place , and in the second , because he had been collared , after a fashion , by a dilemma which had just occurred to his mind . `` It strikes me , Master Pierre Gringoire , '' he said to himself , placing his finger to his brow , " that you are running like a madman .
 But his efforts were vain ; the thread of his memory and of his thought was broken ; and , doubting everything , wavering between what he saw and what he felt , he put to himself this unanswerable question ,  
 At the first moment there had arisen from his poet 's head , or , simply and prosaically , from his empty stomach , a mist , a vapor , so to speak , which , spreading between objects and himself , permitted him to catch a glimpse of them only in the incoherent fog of nightmare ,   in those shadows of dreams which distort every outline , agglomerating objects into unwieldy groups , dilating things into chimeras , and men into phantoms .
 You are in the presence of three powerful sovereigns : myself , Clopin Trouillefou , King of Thunes , successor to the Grand Cosre , supreme suzerain of the Realm of Argot ; Mathias Hunyadi Spicali , Duke of Egypt and of Bohemia , the old yellow fellow whom you see yonder , with a dish clout round his head ; Guillaume Rousseau , Emperor of Galilee , that fat fellow who is not listening to us but caressing a wench .
 `` I shall find difficulty in getting out of it , '' said Gringoire to himself .
 You form for yourselves a great idea of the thing .
 Sinking deeper and deeper into his revery : `` So this , '' he said to himself , following her vaguely with his eyes , " is la Esmeralda ! a celestial creature ! a street dancer ! so much , and so little !
 The new art takes the monument where it finds it , incrusts itself there , assimilates it to itself , develops it according to its fancy , and finishes it if it can .
 He rendered clear and familiar to himself that vast and tumultuous period of civil law and canon law in conflict and at strife with each other , in the chaos of the Middle Ages ,   a period which Bishop Theodore opens in 618 , and which Pope Gregory closes in 1227 .
 The central spire and the two towers were to him as three great cages , whose birds , reared by himself , sang for him alone .
 A sign from Claude and the idea of giving him pleasure would have sufficed to make Quasimodo hurl himself headlong from the summit of Notre  Dame .
 He took it upon himself to reply to the archdeacon 's question ,  
 `` Strange name for a gentleman , '' said the archdeacon to himself .
 I , no more than yourself , have seen the Chaldean masonry works constructed according to the sacred form of the Sikra , nor the temple of Solomon , which is destroyed , nor the stone doors of the sepulchre of the kings of Israel , which are broken .
 Traditions had brought forth symbols , beneath which they disappeared like the trunk of a tree beneath its foliage ; all these symbols in which humanity placed faith continued to grow , to multiply , to intersect , to become more and more complicated ; the first monuments no longer sufficed to contain them , they were overflowing in every part ; these monuments hardly expressed now the primitive tradition , simple like themselves , naked and prone upon the earth .
 During its first period , while theocracy is organizing Europe , while the Vatican is rallying and reclassing about itself the elements of a Rome made from the Rome which lies in ruins around the Capitol , while Christianity is seeking all the stages of society amid the rubbish of anterior civilization , and rebuilding with its ruins a new hierarchic universe , the keystone to whose vault is the priest   one first hears a dull echo from that chaos , and then , little by little , one sees , arising from beneath the breath of Christianity , from beneath the hand of the barbarians , from the fragments of the dead Greek and Roman architectures , that mysterious Romanesque architecture , sister of the theocratic masonry of Egypt and of India , inalterable emblem of pure catholicism , unchangeable hieroglyph of the papal unity .
 There was nothing down to poor poetry ,   properly speaking , that which persisted in vegetating in manuscripts ,   which was not forced , in order to make something of itself , to come and frame itself in the edifice in the shape of a hymn or of prose ; the same part , after all , which the tragedies of AEschylus had played in the sacerdotal festivals of Greece ; Genesis , in the temple of Solomon .
 In the days of architecture it made a mountain of itself , and took powerful possession of a century and a place .
 Reduced to itself , abandoned by the other arts , because human thought is abandoning it , it summons bunglers in place of artists .
 And , meanwhile , four mounted sergeants , who have just posted themselves at the four sides of the pillory , have already concentrated around themselves a goodly proportion of the populace scattered on the Place , who condemn themselves to immobility and fatigue in the hope of a small execution .
 At her death , at the moment when she was passing to the other sepulchre , she had bequeathed this one in perpetuity to afflicted women , mothers , widows , or maidens , who should wish to pray much for others or for themselves , and who should desire to inter themselves alive in a great grief or a great penance .
 She has the same opinion as yourself of these vagabonds of Egypt , who play the tambourine and tell fortunes to the public .
 I will tell you then ( but it is not necessary for us to halt that I may tell you the tale ) , that Paquette la Chantefleurie was a pretty maid of eighteen when I was one myself , that is to say , eighteen years ago , and it is her own fault if she is not to  day , like me , a good , plump , fresh mother of six and thirty , with a husband and a son .
 She nursed her child herself , made swaddling  bands for it out of her coverlet , the only one which she had on her bed , and no longer felt either cold or hunger .
 Her mother had stitched and embroidered them herself ; she had lavished on them all the delicacies of her art of embroideress , and all the embellishments of a robe for the good Virgin .
 Poor Chantefleurie was seized with curiosity ; she wished to know about herself , and whether her pretty little Agnes would not become some day Empress of Armenia , or something else .
 On her return , hearing no cries on the staircase , she said to herself : ' Good ! the child is still asleep ! ' She found her door wider open than she had left it , but she entered , poor mother , and ran to the bed .    The child was no longer there , the place was empty .
 She went about the town , searched all the streets , ran hither and thither the whole day long , wild , beside herself , terrible , snuffingat doors and windows like a wild beast which has lost its young .
 It is certain that if the soul had not already quitted this inert , sluggish , lethargic body , it had at least retreated and concealed itself in depths whither the perceptions of the exterior organs no longer penetrated .
 One thing is certain , and that is , that there was not a soul in the crowd , not even himself , though in turn triumphant and the sufferer , who set forth this combination clearly in his thought .
 Nothing could force a movement from him . Neither his blood , which did not cease to flow , nor the blows which redoubled in fury , nor the wrath of the torturer , who grew excited himself and intoxicated with the execution , nor the sound of the horrible thongs , more sharp andwhistling than the claws of scorpions .
 It is certain that a vague and indistinct desire to please the handsome officer animated them all , that his splendid uniform was the target of all their coquetries , and that from the moment he presented himself , there existed among them a secret , suppressed rivalry , which they hardly acknowledged even to themselves , but which broke forth , none the less , every instant , in their gestures and remarks .
 Her beauty was so rare , that , at the moment when she appeared at the entrance of the apartment , it seemed as though she diffused a sort of light which was peculiar to herself .
 The noble damsels were dazzled by her in spite of themselves .
 This irritation was not diminished when she beheld the captain , enchanted with the gypsy , and , most of all , with himself , execute a pirouette on his heel , repeating with coarse , nave , and soldierly gallantry ,  
 `` Let them talk , little one ! '' he repeated , jingling his golden spurs . `` No doubt your toilet is a little extravagant and wild , but what difference does that make with such a charming damsel as yourself ? ''
 Our readers have not forgotten the mysterious cell which the archdeacon had reserved for himself in that tower .
 This garment presented itself , I took it , and I left my ancient black smock , which , for a hermetic like myself , was far from being hermetically closed .
 Then indecision seized upon him once more , and he paced for several minutes round the statue of M. Legris , repeating to himself with anguish : `` The sermon is sure , the crown is doubtful . ''
 This reflection having brought him to a decision , he plunged resolutely into the small black doorway , and began the ascent of the spiral of Saint  Gilles , which leads to the upper stories of the tower . `` I am going to see , '' he said to himself on the way .
 Jehan observed , with a sigh , that there was no frying  pan . `` How cold the kitchen utensils are ! '' he said to himself .
 `` The devil ! '' said Jehan , to himself , `` it is a long while to wait for a crown ! ''
 The King of France himself , in consequence of once having inconsiderately knocked at the door of the thermaturgist , sank to the knees through the pavement of his own Paris .
 `` My brother is mad , '' said Jehan to himself ; `` it would have been far more simple to write ~ Fatum ~ , every one is not obliged to know Greek . ''
 But it is a devil of a man ; he wearies even Pierrat Torterue himself , who hath hands larger than my own .
 `` Master Pierrat   Master Jacques , I mean , busy yourself with Marc Cenaine . ''
 These last ideas , which had gradually led him back from himself to science , appeared to have calmed him .
 This disturbed him not overmuch . `` Ah , bah ! '' he said to himself , `` I have not a sou . ''
 `` In sooth , '' said Phoebus , as though seeking to capitulate with himself , `` these are two charming things to be encountered in a rendezvous ,   a sword and a wench ; but I do not see why I should miss the one for the sake of the other , when I can have both . ''
 What was taking place at that moment in the gloomy soul of the archdeacon ? God and himself could alone know .
 While speaking thus in his softest voice , he approached extremely near the gypsy ; his caressing hands resumed their place around her supple and delicate waist , his eye flashed more and more , and everything announced that Monsieur Phoebus was on the verge of one of those moments when Jupiter himself commits so many follies that Homer is obliged to summon a cloud to his rescue .
 The unfortunate girl felt herself so utterly abandoned by God and men , that her head fell upon her breast like an inert thing which has no power in itself .
 Between men and himself , the condemned man felt a pile of stones and jailers weighing down upon his head ; and the entire prison , the massive bastille was nothing more than an enormous , complicated lock , which barred him off from the rest of the world .
 For a while she had tried to count the black minutes measured off for her by the drop of water ; but that melancholy labor of an ailing brain had broken off of itself in her head , and had left her in stupor .
 `` Listen , '' said the priest at last , and a singular calm had come over him ; " you shall know all I am about to tell you that which I have hitherto hardly dared to say to myself , when furtively interrogating my conscience at those deep hours of the night when it is so dark that it seems as though God no longer saw us .
 What I beheld , others saw beside myself , and yet it was not a spectacle made for human eyes .
 Then   how stop myself on that slope of hell ?   then I no longer belonged to myself .
 I became vagrant and wandering like yourself .
 Every evening I returned to myself more charmed , more despairing , more bewitched , more lost !
 We would love each other , we would pour our two souls into each other , and we would have a thirst for ourselves which we would quench in common and incessantly at that fountain of inexhaustible love . "
 He seized her arm , he was beside himself , he tried to drag her away .
 `` Oh ! yes , '' said he , as though speaking to himself , " he certainly must be dead .
 Did you not know that our children are part of ourselves , and that a mother who has lost her child no longer believes in God ?
 Ah ! fifteen years ! she will be grown up now !   Unhappy child ! what ! it is really true then I shall never see her more , not even in heaven , for I shall not go there myself .
 Every time that children crossed her vision or struck her ear , the poor mother flung herself into the darkest corner of her sepulchre , and one would have said , that she sought to plunge her head into the stone in order not to hear them .
 Madame de Gondelaurier herself , still maternally seated in her big arm  chair , had not the heart to scold him .
 This gorget gaped so conveniently , and allowed him to see so many exquisite things and to divine so many more , that Phoebus , dazzled by this skin with its gleams of satin , said to himself ,
 The crowd became silent , and , in the midst of this silence full of anxiety and solemnity , the two leaves of the grand door swung back , as of themselves , on their hinges , which gave a creak like the sound of a fife .
 He stirred up in the depths of his heart all his hatred , all his malevolence ; and , with the cold glance of a physician who examines a patient , he recognized the fact that this malevolence was nothing but vitiated love ; that love , that source of every virtue in man , turned to horrible things in the heart of a priest , and that a man constituted like himself , in making himself a priest , made himself a demon .
 He wept with rage as he pictured to himself how many impure looks had been gratified at the sight of that badly fastened shift , and that this beautiful girl , this virgin lily , this cup of modesty and delight , to which he would have dared to place his lips only trembling , had just been transformed into a sort of public bowl , whereat the vilest populace ofParis , thieves , beggars , lackeys , had come to quaff in common an audacious , impure , and depraved pleasure .
 And when he sought to picture to himself the happiness which he might have found upon earth , if she had not been a gypsy , and if he had not been a priest , if Phoebus had not existed and if she had loved him ; when he pictured to himself that a life of serenity and love would have been possible to him also , even to him ; that there were at that very moment , here and there upon the earth , happy couples spending the hours in sweet converse beneath orange trees , on the banks of brooks , in the presence of a setting sun , of a starry night ; and that if God had so willed , he might have formed with her one of those blessed couples ,   his heart melted in tenderness and despair .
 There was another moment when , while laughing diabolically at himself , he represented to himself la Esmeralda as he had seen her on that first day , lively , careless , joyous , gayly attired , dancing , winged , harmonious , and la Esmeralda of the last day , in her scanty shift , with a rope about her neck , mounting slowly with her bare feet , the angular ladder of the gallows ; he figured to himself this double picture in such a manner .that he gave vent to a terrible cry .
 This flight from nature , life , himself , man , God , everything , lasted all day long .
 But the vision was in himself .
 At Notre  Dame it was a tiny cell situated on the roof of the side aisle , beneath the flying buttresses , precisely at the spot where the wife of the present janitor of the towers has made for herself a garden , which is to the hanging gardens of Babylon what a lettuce is to a palm  tree , what a porter 's wife is to a Semiramis .
 Then she dropped her eyes upon herself and saw that she was almost naked , and blushed .
 When I compare myself to you , I feel a very great pity for myself , poor unhappy monster that I am !
 Love is like a tree ; it sprouts forth of itself , sends its roots out deeply through our whole being , and often continues to flourish greenly over a heart in ruins .
 Let us add that the church , that vast church , which surrounded her on every side , which guarded her , which saved her , was itself a sovereign tranquillizer .
 He cast a glance towards the roof from time to time ; the gypsy did not stir any more than himself .
 It is true that the night was very dark , that la Esmeralda , if she had remained at her post ( and he had no doubt of this ) , was very far away , and that it was all that he himself could do to distinguish the lovers on the balcony .
 He had kept all the pain to himself .
 She passed her days in caressing Djali , in watching the door of the Gondelaurier house , in talking to herself about Phoebus , and in crumbling up her bread for the swallows .
 Was he concocting a final plan of death for her and of perdition for himself ?
 All at once she felt him stronger than herself . `` There must be an end to this ! '' he said , gnashing his teeth .
 The priest , beside himself , was about to seize it .
 He had thought it very simple on the part of people who had , like herself , nothing else in prospect but Charmolue and Torterue , and who , unlike himself , did not gallop through the regions of imagination between the wings of Pegasus .
 And then , from morning till night , I have the happiness of passing all my days with a man ofgenius , who is myself , which is very agreeable . "
 `` A head fit for a mule bell ! '' muttered the archdeacon . " Oh ! tell me who preserved for you that life which you render so charming to yourself ?
 If I had only another one myself !
 `` Yes , '' resumed Gringoire , talking to himself and touching his nose with his forefinger in sign of meditation ,   " that 's it !   The thieves are brave fellows !   The tribe of Egypt love her !   They will rise at the first word !   Nothing easier !   A sudden stroke .   Under cover of the disorder , they will easily carry her off !   Beginning to  morrow evening . They will ask nothing better .
 And , while the archdeacon was disappearing in one direction , he set off in the other , saying to himself in a low voice : " Here 's a grand affair , Monsieur Pierre Gringoire .
 He imagined that there existed a popular hatred against her , as against himself , and that it was very possible that something might happen soon .
 At that critical moment he took counsel with himself , with better and prompter reasoning than one would have expected from so badly organized a brain .
 In the majority of such cases , the neighbors did not meddle with the matter unless the pillaging extended to themselves .
 The locksmiths , although protected by the deep vaults of the portal , abandoned the door and Clopin himself retired to a respectful distance from the church .
 `` Churches have been known to defend themselves thus all by themselves , '' he remarked with a sigh .
 It was , in fact , Jehan , who was running as fast as his heavy outfit of a Paladin , and a long ladder which trailed on the pavement , would permit , more breathless than an ant harnessed to a blade of grass twenty times longer than itself .
 This little chamber , which the king reserved for himself in the famous state prison , was also tolerably spacious and occupied the topmost story of a turret rising from the donjon keep .
 Hold , Master Olivier ; I desire to see that cage myself .
 The lamentable voice which had proceeded from the cage had frozen all present , even Master Olivier himself .
 He tore the book from Master Olivier 's hands , and set to reckoning it himself upon his fingers , examining the paper and the cage alternately .
 That the gendarmes of the unattached troops , the feudal nobles , the free archers , and the Swiss inflict infinite evils on the rustics .   That the military , not content with what they find in the houses of the rustics , constrain them with violent blows of cudgel or of lash to go and get wine , spices , and other unreasonable things in the town .   That monsieur the king knows this . That we undertake to guard our people against inconveniences , larcenies and pillage .   That such is our will , by our Lady !   That in addition , it suits us not that any fiddler , barber , or any soldier varlet should be clad like a prince , in velvet , cloth of silk , and rings of gold .   That these vanities are hateful to God .   That we , who are gentlemen , content ourselves with a doublet of cloth at sixteen sols the ell , of Paris .   That messieurs the camp  followers can very well come down to that , also .   Command and ordain .   To Monsieur de Rouault , our friend .   Good . "
 He continued dreamily , and as though speaking to himself ,  
 I should greatly like to know whether it be the mercy of God that there should be in Paris any other lord than the king , any other judge than our parliament , any other emperor than ourselves in this empire !
 Sire ! break not in thunder over so small a thing as myself .
 A physician for himself , a headsman for others . "
 The brave deaf man , assailed on all sides , had lost , if not all courage , at least all hope of saving , not himself ( he was not thinking of himself ) , but the gypsy .
 The boat , abandoned to itself , floated for several minutes with the stream .
 He looked like the ghost of himself ; that is an effect of the moonlight , it seems as though one beheld only the spectres of things in that light .
 It is that which renders me evil , do you see ? and horrible to myself .   You will not even look at me !
 Oh ! I shall fall upon the pavement if you do not take pity on me , pity on yourself .
 Oh ! what desertion of all virtue ! What desperate abandonment of myself !
 He was silent for a moment , and resumed , as though speaking to himself , and in a strong voice ,   `` Cain , what hast thou done with thy brother ? ''
 A touch from the young girl , as she drew her foot from under him , brought him to himself .
 Quick , quick ! let us set out at once !   During that time , `` she said to herself , '' my daughter will make her escape . "
 Then great tears fell , one by one , from her eyes ; they flowed down her cheeks through a furrow , like a torrent through a bed which it has hollowed for itself .
 If it were myself , I would say nothing ; but she , a child of sixteen !
 He imagined that she might have returned thither , that some good genius had , no doubt , brought her back , that this chamber was too tranquil , too safe , too charming for her not to be there , and he dared not take another step for fear of destroying his illusion . `` Yes , '' he said to himself , " perchance she is sleeping , or praying .
 The rope made several gyrations on itself , and Quasimodo beheld horrible convulsions run along the gypsy 's body .
 The miserable man said to himself that , when his hands should be worn out with fatigue , when his cassock should tear asunder , when the lead should give way , he would be obliged to fall , and terror seized upon his very vitals .
 He gazed at the impressive carvings , one by one , of the tower , suspended like himself over the precipice , but without terror for themselves or pity for him .
 Let the reader picture to himself , crowning a limestone hillock , an oblong mass of masonry fifteen feet in height , thirty wide , forty long , with a gate , an external railing and a platform ; on this platform sixteen enormous pillars of rough hewn stone , thirty feet in height , arranged in a colonnade round three of the four sides of the mass which support them , bound together at their summits by heavy beams , whence hung chains at intervals ; on all these chains , skeletons ; in the vicinity , on the plain , a stone cross and two gibbets of secondary importance , which seemed to have sprung up as shoots around the central gallows ; above all this , in the sky , a perpetual flock of crows ; that was Montfauon .
 It 's not really part of my job to be friendly towards you like this , but I hope no-one , apart from Franz , will hear about it , and he 's been more friendly towards you than he should have been , under the rules , himself .
 `` You 'll get the chance to see for yourself how true all this is , '' said Franz and both men then walked up to K. They were significantly bigger than him , especially the second man , who frequently slapped him on the shoulder .
 K. stopped talking with them ; do I , he thought to himself , do I really have to carry on getting tangled up with the chattering of base functionaries like this ? - and they admit themselves that they are of the lowest position .
 It 's only because of their stupidity that they 're able to be so sure of themselves .
 I just need few words with someone of the same social standing as myself and everything will be incomparably clearer , much clearer than a long conversation with these two can make it .
 He walked up and down the free space in the room a couple of times , across the street he could see the old woman who , now , had pulled an old man , much older than herself , up to the window and had her arms around him .
 In itself , he found the order very welcome .
 At that , K. threw the coat to the floor and said - without knowing even himself what he meant by it - `` Well it 's not going to be the main trial , after all . ''
 `` What I mean is ... , '' said K. without delaying a second time , " that , yes , I am very surprised but when you 've been in the world for thirty years already and had to make your own way through everything yourself , which has been my lot , then you become hardened to surprises and do n't take them too hard .
 I ca n't give you an answer to your questions , but I can give you a bit of advice : You 'd better think less about us and what 's going to happen to you , and think a bit more about yourself .
 That spring , whenever possible , K. usually spent his evenings after work - he usually stayed in the office until nine o 'clock - with a short walk , either by himself or in the company of some of the bank officials , and then he would go into a pub where he would sit at the regulars ' table with mostly older men until eleven .
 `` A woman 's hands will do many things when no-one 's looking , '' he thought , he might himself have smashed all the dishes on the spot but certainly would not have been able to carry it all out .
 `` There 's no need for that , Mr. K. , you 're too conscientious , the young lady does n't know anything about it , she has n't been home since early this morning and everything 's been tidied up again , you can see for yourself . '' And she opened the door to Miss Brstner 's room .
 `` That 's exactly the problem , '' said K. , `` I do n't know that myself . ''
 Miss Brstner looked at the floor in front of her , quiet and a little sunk in on herself .
 `` Next time I come here , '' he said to himself , `` I must either bring sweets with me make them like me or a stick to hit them with . '' Just before he reached the first landing he even had to wait a little while until a ball had finished its movement , two small lads with sly faces like grown-up scoundrels held him by his trouser-legs until it had ; if he were to shake them off he would have to hurt them , and he was afraid of what noise they would make by shouting .
 But , for the moment , I do acknowledge it , out of pity for yourselves to a large extent .
 The judge grabbed the notebook from where it had fallen on the desk - which could only have been a sign of his deep humiliation , or at least that is how it must have been perceived - tried to tidy it up a little , and held it once more in front of himself in order to read from it .
 It 's on behalf of them that I stand here now , not for myself alone . "
 That is impossible , not even the highest judge would be able to achieve that for himself .
 `` Do you want to make things a bit better here ? '' the woman asked slowly , watching him as if she were saying something that could be as dangerous for K. as for herself .
 Those gentlemen would only save some work for themselves , or at least some unpleasantness for me , which , however , I am glad to endure if I know that each piece of unpleasantness for me is a blow against them .
 Nice stockings , they are , look , `` - she stretched out her leg , drew her skirt up to her knee and looked , herself , at the stocking - '' they are nice stockings , but they 're too good for me , really . "
 Could he not have that much confidence in himself ?
 And maybe there was no better revenge against the examining judge and his cronies than to take this woman from him and have her for himself .
 If that was how they were accommodated it did not attract much respect , and it was some comfort for the accused to realise how little money this court had at its disposal if it had to locate its offices in a place where the tenants of the building , who were themselves among the poorest of people , would throw their unneeded junk .
 On the other hand , it was possible that the officials had enough money but that they squandered it on themselves rather than use it for the court 's purposes .
 `` Nothing that I know of , '' said the usher . `` And it 's going to get even worse now , up till now he 's only been carrying her off for himself , now he 's started carrying her off for the judge and all , just like I 'd always said he would . ''
 `` Alright then , '' said K. finally , `` I 'll come with you . '' And , quicker than the usher himself , he ran up the steps .
 `` I do n't really know , exactly , '' said the man , once more totally unsure of himself ; he clearly thought K. was joking with him and therefore probably thought it best to repeat his earlier answer in order to avoid making any new mistakes . With K. looking at him impatiently , he just said , `` as far as I 'm concerned , I 've applied to have this evidence heard . ''
 The usher of the court said a few words to try and calm him down but the guard explained that he had to look into it himself , saluted , and hurried on , walking with very short steps , probably because of gout .
 If you do n't want to go back by yourself come on a bit further with me or else wait here till I 've sorted out my report , then I 'll be glad to go back with you again . "
 But so much soot fell in that the girl had to immediately close the hatch again and clean the soot off K. 's hands with her handkerchief , as K. was too tired to do that for himself .
 I also work in an office and I 'm quite used to office air , but here it seems to be too strong , you 've said so yourselves .
 So please , be so kind as to help me on my way a little , I 'm feeling dizzy , you see , and it 'll make me ill if I stand up by myself . "
 `` Do n't worry too much about him laughing , '' said the girl to K. , who had become unhappy once more and stared quietly in front of himself as if needing no further explanation . `` This gentleman - may I introduce you ? '' - ( the man gave his permission with a wave of the hand ) - " so , this gentleman 's job is to give out information .
 `` Yes , '' said Mrs. Grubach with a sigh , " I wanted to give her some help and I wanted the maid to help her too but she 's stubborn , she wants to move everything in herself .
 I often feel it 's a burden for me to have Miss Montag as a tenant but Miss Brstner accepts her into her room with herself . "
 Moreover , it was only yesterday , and only very briefly , that she made it clear to me that such a meeting could be of no benefit for yourself either , she feels that it can only have been a matter of chance that such an idea came to you , and that even without any explanations from her , you will very soon come to realise yourself , if you have not done so already , the futility of your idea .
 Now you can hear for yourself , he did n't even know we 'd have to be punished . "
 Down in front of the bank my poor bride is waiting for me at the entrance , I 'm so ashamed of myself , it 's pitiful . "
 They would be able to do the job the next day , K. nodded , it was too late in the evening to make them do it there and then as he had originally intended . He sat down briefly in order to keep them near him for a little longer , looked through a few of the copies to give the impression that he was checking them and then , as he saw that they would not dare to leave at the same time as himself , went home tired and with his mind numb .
 `` What 's this that I 've been hearing , Josef ? '' cried K. 's uncle when they were alone , as he sat on the table shoving various papers under himself without looking at them to make himself more comfortable .
 I 'm sure that is what will happen and that everything will turn out for the best in the end , but in the mean time things do not look at all good , and you can see that from the mood of the chief clerk himself .
 `` How can I help worrying ? ! '' shouted his uncle , " Josef , my Dear Josef , think about yourself , about your family , think about our good name !
 But will you push things forward yourself with all your strength , if so , that will naturally be far better . "
 Even while he was still speaking , K. 's uncle had stood on tiptoe to summon a taxi and now he pulled K. into the car behind himself as he called out an address to the driver .
 You say he 's ill ? " and strode towards the gentleman in a way that seemed almost threatening , as if he were the illness himself .
 The lawyer now looked so much stronger that it seemed the idea of being visited because he was ill had somehow made him weak , he remained supporting himself of one elbow , which must have been rather tiring , and continually pulled at a lock of hair in the middle of his beard .
 `` I did think , '' she said " you would come out here to me by yourself with me having to call you first .
 I 'm accumulating women to help me , he thought to himself almost in amazement , first Miss Brstner , then the court usher 's wife , and now this little care assistant who seems to have some incomprehensible need for me .
 K. had the feeling that he would be able to ask all the questions needed here himself .
 The lawyer , in contrast , did not ask questions but did all the talking himself or sat silently facing him , leant forward slightly over the desk , probably because he was hard of hearing , pulled on a strand of hair in the middle of his beard and looked down at the carpet , perhaps at the very spot where K. had lain with Leni .
 No , K. has seen for himself that the court officials , including some who are quite high up , come forward without being asked , are glad to give information which is fully open or at least easy to understand , they discuss the next stages in the proceedings , in fact in some cases they can be won over and are quite willing to adopt the other person 's point of view .
 In normal , mediocre trials its officials have contact with the public , and they 're very well equipped for it , but here they do n't ; normal trials run their course all by themselves , almost , and just need a nudge here and there ; but when they 're faced with cases that are especially difficult they 're as lost as they often are with ones that are very simple ; they 're forced to spend all their time , day and night , with their laws , and so they do n't have the right feel for human relationships , and that 's a serious shortcoming in cases like this .
 Never attract attention to yourself !
 Try to gain some insight into the size of the court organism and how , to some extent , it remains in a state of suspension , and that even if you alter something in one place you 'll draw the ground out from under your feet and might fall , whereas if an enormous organism like the court is disrupted in any one place it finds it easy to provide a substitute for itself somewhere else . Everything is connected with everything else and will continue without any change or else , which is quite probable , even more closed , more attentive , more strict , more malevolent .
 How could he ever carry on by himself after he 's taken on help from a lawyer ?
 Earlier , just a week or so before , he could only have felt shame at the thought of being made to write out such documents himself ; it had never entered his head that the task could also be difficult .
 But the deputy director did not notice this at all , or if he did notice it it only raised his spirits , he frequently laughed out loud , one time he clearly embarrassed the manufacturer when he raised an objection in a witty way but drew him immediately back out of his embarrassment by commenting adversely on himself , and finally invited him into his office where they could bring the matter to its conclusion .
 K. still had enough control of himself to turn away from the deputy director and direct his friendly , albeit stiff , smile only at the manufacturer , he made no other retaliation , bent down slightly and supported himself with both hands on his desk like a clerk , and watched as the two gentlemen , still talking , took the papers from his desk and disappeared into the manager 's office .
 At last , K. was by himself .
 Now , in contrast , if he was to conduct his defence himself , he would have to devote himself entirely to the court - for the time being , at least - success would mean , later on , his complete and conclusive liberation , but if he was to achieve this he would have to place himself , to start with , in far greater danger than he had been in so far .
 `` And what about you ? '' asked K. , already more in control of himself .
 Perhaps - this is what I 've been thinking - perhaps Titorelli might be able to help you in some small way , he knows lots of judges and even if he ca n't have much influence himself he can give you some advice about how to get some influential people on your side .
 We are businessmen like yourselves and know the value of a businessman 's time .
 `` I ca n't deal with him right now , '' K. said to himself , `` but once my personal difficulties have been settled , then he 'll certainly be the first to get the effect of it , and he certainly wo n't like it . ''
 Slightly calmed by these thoughts , K. gave the servitor , who had already long been holding the door to the corridor open for him , the task of telling the director , when he was able , that K. was going out of the bank on a business matter . As he left the bank he felt almost happy at the thought of being able to devote more of himself to his own business for a while .
 It 's laid down quite strictly just what sort of portrait each of them can get for himself .
 K. forewent the opportunity to excuse himself in some way as he did not wish to distract the painter from what he was saying , or else perhaps he did n't want him to get too far above himself and in this way make himself to some extent unattainable , so he asked , `` Is that a publicly acknowledged position ? ''
 The painter even seemed to misunderstand why K. remained at the edge of the bed and urged K. to make himself comfortable , and as he hesitated he went over to the bed himself and pressed K. deep down into the bedclothes and pillows .
 `` Yes , '' said K. to himself , forgetting that he had only gone there to investigate the painter .
 I 'll get you out of this by myself . "
 And the painter would fit in very well in the circle of assistants that K. was slowly gathering around himself .
 Not a single acquittal , `` said K. , as if talking to himself and his hopes . '' That confirms the impression I already have of the court .
 He had hardly done this when one of the girls called out , `` Now he 's taken his coat off ! '' and they could all be heard pressing around the gaps in the planks to see the spectacle for themselves .
 `` Deferment , '' said the painter , looking vaguely in front of himself for a while as if trying to find a perfectly appropriate explanation , " deferment consists of keeping proceedings permanently in their earliest stages .
 It was not so much finding court offices even here that shocked K. , he was mainly shocked at himself , at his own navety in court matters .
 There were benches set along each side of the corridor just as in the waiting area for the office he went to himself .
 `` Oh , do forgive me ! '' said the man , and he looked at himself in the light of the candle he was holding as if he had not known about his appearance until then .
 He felt himself as much at liberty as is normally only felt in foreign parts when speaking with people of lower standing , keeping everything about himself to himself , speaking only casually about the interests of the other , able to raise him to a level above one 's own , but also able , at will , to let him drop again .
 K. however went very close behind Leni 's back , leant over her shoulder and asked , `` Who is this man ? '' Leni put one hand around K. as she stirred the soup with the other , she drew him forward toward herself and said , " He 's a pitiful character , a poor businessman by the name of Block .
 And it turned out to be quite impossible to work there yourself and to negotiate , at least for me it was .
 I 'm talking about the others , but I 'm no better myself .
 The superstitious beliefs were established a long time ago and they spread all by themselves . "
 I thought to myself : What this lawyer ca n't or wo n't do another lawyer will .
 But when he talks about them and compares them with himself and his colleagues there 's a small error running through what he says , and , just for your interest , I 'll tell you about it .
 That 's wrong , anyone can call himself ' great ' if he wants to , of course , but in this case only the usage of the court can make that distinction .
 For himself , he wanted to go to the lawyer and , by dismissing him , free himself from not only the lawyer but also from Leni and the businessman . But before he had reached the door the businessman spoke to him gently .
 He had almost closed the door behind himself , but Leni held the door open with her foot , grabbed his arm and tried to pull him back .
 As the lawyer finished what he was saying , K. was fully in control of himself , he had even nodded conspicuously at his last few words in order to confirm to himself the view he had already formed ; that the lawyer was trying to confuse him , as he always did , by making general and irrelevant observations , and thus distract him from the main question of what he was actually doing for K. 's trial .
 `` Thank you for feeling so friendly toward me , '' he said , " and I also realise how deeply involved you 've been in my case , as deeply as possible for yourself and to bring as much advantage as possible to me .
 He did seem to be very busy as a lawyer as well a rich man , neither the loss of income nor the loss of a client could have been of much importance to him in themselves .
 But he clearly deemed K. 's silence to be favourable for himself and he continued ,
 But to make sure of himself for any event he added , `` but you do realise that you are no longer to be my lawyer , do n't you ? ''
 `` Was n't I summoned ? '' asked Block , more to himself than the lawyer . He held his hands in front of himself as protection and would have been ready to run away any moment .
 `` I will , '' said Block , as if speaking to himself to give himself courage , and with a quick glance to the side he kneeled down close beside the bed .
 You should be ashamed of yourself here in front of my client !
 Embarrassed , Block ran his fingers through the pile of the carpet , his anxiety about what the judge had said had let him forget his inferior status towards the lawyer for a while , he thought only about himself and turned the judges words round to examine them from all sides .
 The temptation for once to turn the job down was very great , especially as it had no direct connection with business , but there was no denying that social obligations towards this business contact were in themselves important enough , only not for K. , who knew quite well that he needed some successes at work if he was to maintain his position there and that , if he failed in that , it would not help him even if this Italian somehow found him quite charming ; he did not want to be removed from his workplace for even one day , as the fear of not being allowed back in was too great , he knew full well that the fear was exaggerated but it still made him anxious .
 He thought he needed to apologise to K. for something and told him - they were standing intimately close together - he had thought at first he would accompany the Italian himself , but then - he gave no more precise reason than this - then he decided it would be better to send K. with him .
 One thing that K. could not bear was pity that he had not wanted or expected , he took his leave of her with two words , but as he put the receiver back in its place he said , half to himself and half to the girl on the other end of the line who could no longer hear him , `` Yes , they 're harassing me . ''
 K. felt slightly abandoned as , probably observed by the priest , he walked by himself between the empty pews , and the size of the cathedral seemed to be just at the limit of what a man could bear .
 He had nearly left the area covered by pews and was close to the empty space between himself and the exit when , for the first time , he heard the voice of the priest .
 Over the first few years he curses his unhappy condition out loud , but later , as he becomes old , he just grumbles to himself .
 `` That is well substantiated , '' said K. , who had been repeating some parts of the priest 's explanation to himself in a whisper .
 `` But I ca n't find my way round in this darkness by myself , '' said K.
 `` Some ancient , unimportant actors - that 's what they 've sent for me , '' said K. to himself , and looked round once again to confirm this to himself . `` They want to sort me out as cheaply as they can . ''
 `` The only thing I can do now , '' he said to himself , and his thought was confirmed by the equal length of his own steps with the steps of the two others , " the only thing I can do now is keep my common sense and do what 's needed right till the end .
 Several times he looked back cautiously to see if the policeman was following ; but when they had a corner between themselves and the policeman K. began to run , and the two gentlemen , despite being seriously short of breath , had to run with him .
 So one of the gentlemen asked the other to grant him a short time while he put K. in position by himself , but even that did nothing to make it better .
 K. now knew it would be his duty to take the knife as it passed from hand to hand above him and thrust it into himself .
 Gregor , however , had no thought of opening the door , and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit , acquired from his travelling , of locking all doors at night even when he was at home .
 It was a simple matter to throw off the covers ; he only had to blow himself up a little and they fell off by themselves .
 `` This is something that ca n't be done in bed , '' Gregor said to himself , `` so do n't keep trying to do it . ''
 `` Seven o 'clock , already , '' he said to himself when the clock struck again , `` seven o 'clock , and there 's still a fog like this . '' And he lay there quietly a while longer , breathing lightly as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back to their real and natural state .
 But then he said to himself : " Before it strikes quarter past seven I 'll definitely have to have got properly out of bed .
 `` That 'll be someone from work , '' he said to himself , and froze very still , although his little legs only became all the more lively as they danced around .
 `` They 're not opening the door , '' Gregor said to himself , caught in some nonsensical hope .
 Gregor only needed to hear the visitor 's first words of greeting and he knew who it was - the chief clerk himself .
 `` Yes , I know , '' said Gregor to himself ; but without daring to raise his voice loud enough for his sister to hear him .
 Anyway , I 'm glad you 're here ; we would n't have been able to get Gregor to open the door by ourselves ; he 's so stubborn ; and I 'm sure he is n't well , he said this morning that he is , but he is n't . "
 `` But Sir , '' called Gregor , beside himself and forgetting all else in the excitement , " I 'll open up immediately , just a moment .
 Whatever was said next would be crucial , so , in order to make his voice as clear as possible , he coughed a little , but taking care to do this not too loudly as even this might well sound different from the way that a human coughs and he was no longer sure he could judge this for himself .
 The clear sound of the lock as it snapped back was Gregor 's sign that he could break his concentration , and as he regained his breath he said to himself : `` So , I did n't need the locksmith after all . '' Then he lay his head on the handle of the door to open it completely .
 His mother was not far away in front of him and seemed , at first , quite engrossed in herself , but then she suddenly jumped up with her arms outstretched and her fingers spread shouting : `` Help , for pity 's sake , Help ! '' The way she held her head suggested she wanted to see Gregor better , but the unthinking way she was hurrying backwards showed that she did not ; she had forgotten that the table was behind her with all the breakfast things on it ; when she reached the table she sat quickly down on it without knowing what she was doing ; without even seeming to notice that the coffee pot had been knocked over and a gush of coffee was pouring down onto the carpet .
 The flight of the chief clerk seemed , unfortunately , to put Gregor 's father into a panic as well . Until then he had been relatively self controlled , but now , instead of running after the chief clerk himself , or at least not impeding Gregor as he ran after him , Gregor 's father seized the chief clerk 's stick in his right hand ( the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair , along with his hat and overcoat ) , picked up a large newspaper from the table with his left , and used them to drive Gregor back into his room , stamping his foot at him as he went .
 One side of his body lifted itself , he lay at an angle in the doorway , one flank scraped on the white door and was painfully injured , leaving vile brown flecks on it , soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all by himself , the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the ground . Then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which released him from where he was held and sent him flying , and heavily bleeding , deep into his room .
 `` What a quiet life it is the family lead , '' said Gregor to himself , and , gazing into the darkness , felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in such a nice home for his sister and parents .
 She did not see him straight away , but when she did notice him under the couch - he had to be somewhere , for God 's sake , he could n't have flown away - she was so shocked that she lost control of herself and slammed the door shut again from outside .
 Then , out of consideration for Gregor 's feelings , as she knew that he would not eat in front of her , she hurried out again and even turned the key in the lock so that Gregor would know he could make things as comfortable for himself as he liked .
 For two whole days , all the talk at every mealtime was about what they should do now ; but even between meals they spoke about the same subject as there were always at least two members of the family at home - nobody wanted to be at home by themselves and it was out of the question to leave the flat entirely empty .
 When explaining things , his father repeated himself several times , partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with these matters himself and partly because Gregor 's mother did not understand everything the first time . From these repeated explanations Gregor learned , to his pleasure , that despite all their misfortunes there was still some money available from the old days .
 Besides that , they had not been using up all the money that Gregor had been bringing home every month , keeping only a little for himself , so that that , too , had been accumulating .
 In itself , his sister 's not coming into the room would have been no surprise for Gregor as it would have been difficult for her to immediately open the window while he was still there , but not only did she not come in , she went straight back and closed the door behind her , a stranger would have thought he had threatened her and tried to bite her .
 Ca n't you understand I have to see him ? , " and Gregor would think to himself that maybe it would be better if his mother came in , not every day of course , but one day a week , perhaps ; she could understand everything much better than his sister who , for all her courage , was still just a child after all , and really might not have had an adult 's appreciation of the burdensome job she had taken on .
 He was especially fond of hanging from the ceiling ; it was quite different from lying on the floor ; he could breathe more freely ; his body had a light swing to it ; and up there , relaxed and almost happy , it might happen that he would surprise even himself by letting go of the ceiling and landing on the floor with a crash .
 But now , of course , he had far better control of his body than before and , even with a fall as great as that , caused himself no damage .
 Now , this was not something that she would be able to do by herself ; she did not dare to ask for help from her father ; the sixteen year old maid had carried on bravely since the cook had left but she certainly would not have helped in this , she had even asked to be allowed to keep the kitchen locked at all times and never to have to open the door unless it was especially important ; so his sister had no choice but to choose some time when Gregor 's father was not there and fetch his mother to help her .
 The old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair of feeble women to be heaving about , but Gregor listened as they pushed it from its place , his sister always taking on the heaviest part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother 's warnings that she would strain herself .
 She thought just the opposite ; the sight of the bare walls saddened her right to her heart ; and why would n't Gregor feel the same way about it , he 'd been used to this furniture in his room for a long time and it would make him feel abandoned to be in an empty room like that . Then , quietly , almost whispering as if wanting Gregor ( whose whereabouts she did not know ) to hear not even the tone of her voice , as she was convinced that he did not understand her words , she added " and by taking the furniture away , wo n't it seem like we 're showing that we 've given up all hope of improvement and we 're abandoning him to cope for himself ?
 Hearing these words from his mother made Gregor realise that the lack of any direct human communication , along with the monotonous life led by the family during these two months , must have made him confused - he could think of no other way of explaining to himself why he had seriously wanted his room emptied out .
 Grete would probably be the only one who would dare enter a room dominated by Gregor crawling about the bare walls by himself .
 He meant to be as careful and considerate as he could , but , unfortunately , it was his mother who came back first while Grete in the next room had her arms round the chest , pushing and pulling at it from side to side by herself without , of course , moving it an inch .
 Gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was happening , it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after all , but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro , their little calls to each other , the scraping of the furniture on the floor , all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed from all sides . With his head and legs pulled in against him and his body pressed to the floor , he was forced to admit to himself that he could not stand all of this much longer .
 This is what peace I get in my old age ! " And supported by the two women he would lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load himself , let the women take him to the door , send them off and carry on by himself while Gregor 's mother would throw down her needle and his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and continue being of help to him .
 But his mother was to be punished still more for what she had done , as hardly had his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the change in Gregor 's room and , highly aggrieved , ran back into the living room where , despite her mothers raised and imploring hands , she broke into convulsive tears . Her father , of course , was startled out of his chair and the two parents looked on astonished and helpless ; then they , too , became agitated ; Gregor 's father , standing to the right of his mother , accused her of not leaving the cleaning of Gregor 's room to his sister ; from her left , Gregor 's sister screamed at her that she was never to clean Gregor 's room again ; while his mother tried to draw his father , who was beside himself with anger , into the bedroom ; his sister , quaking with tears , thumped on the table with her small fists ; and Gregor hissed in anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him the sight of this and all its noise .
 `` Oh yes , we 'd love to , '' called back Gregor 's father as if he had been the violin player himself .
 `` She 's absolutely right , '' said Gregor 's father to himself .
 All he had done was begin to turn round so that he could go back into his room , although that was in itself quite startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help himself do it , repeatedly raising it and striking it against the floor .
 When she had no success with that she tried to make a nuisance of herself and poked at him a little , and only when she found she could shove him across the floor with no resistance at all did she start to pay attention .
 She soon realised what had really happened , opened her eyes wide , whistled to herself , but did not waste time to yank open the bedroom doors and shout loudly into the darkness of the bedrooms : `` Come and ' ave a look at this , it 's dead , just lying there , stone dead ! ''
 `` Dead ? , '' asked Mrs. Samsa , looking at the charwoman enquiringly , even though she could have checked for herself and could have known it even without checking .
 They had the tram , filled with warm sunshine , all to themselves .
 When they are , it is easier to hold them , especially when they have not been accustomed to self-government ; and to hold them securely it is enough to have destroyed the family of the prince who was ruling them ; because the two peoples , preserving in other things the old conditions , and not being unlike in customs , will live quietly together , as one has seen in Brittany , Burgundy , Gascony , and Normandy , which have been bound to France for so long a time : and , although there may be some difference in language , nevertheless the customs are alike , and the people will easily be able to get on amongst themselves .
 Again , the prince who holds a country differing in the above respects ought to make himself the head and defender of his less powerful neighbours , and to weaken the more powerful amongst them , taking care that no foreigner as powerful as himself shall , by any accident , get a footing there ; for it will always happen that such a one will be introduced by those who are discontented , either through excess of ambition or through fear , as one has seen already .
 So that in respect to those subject states he has not to take any trouble to gain them over to himself , for the whole of them quickly rally to the state which he has acquired there .
 Considering the difficulties which men have had to hold to a newly acquired state , some might wonder how , seeing that Alexander the Great became the master of Asia in a few years , and died whilst it was scarcely settled ( whence it might appear reasonable that the whole empire would have rebelled ) , nevertheless his successors maintained themselves , and had to meet no other difficulty than that which arose among themselves from their own ambitions .
 And when fighting afterwards amongst themselves , each one was able to attach to himself his own parts of the country , according to the authority he had assumed there ; and the family of the former lord being exterminated , none other than the Romans were acknowledged .
 But when cities or countries are accustomed to live under a prince , and his family is exterminated , they , being on the one hand accustomed to obey and on the other hand not having the old prince , can not agree in making one from amongst themselves , and they do not know how to govern themselves .
 For this reason they are very slow to take up arms , and a prince can gain them to himself and secure them much more easily .
 It is necessary , therefore , if we desire to discuss this matter thoroughly , to inquire whether these innovators can rely on themselves or have to depend on others : that is to say , whether , to consummate their enterprise , have they to use prayers or can they use force ?
 In the first instance they always succeed badly , and never compass anything ; but when they can rely on themselves and use force , then they are rarely endangered .
 Of the Orsini he had a warning when , after taking Faenza and attacking Bologna , he saw them go very unwillingly to that attack . And as to the king , he learned his mind when he himself , after taking the Duchy of Urbino , attacked Tuscany , and the king made him desist from that undertaking ; hence the duke decided to depend no more upon the arms and the luck of others .
 For the first thing he weakened the Orsini and Colonnesi parties in Rome , by gaining to himself all their adherents who were gentlemen , making them his gentlemen , giving them good pay , and , according to their rank , honouring them with office and command in such a way that in a few months all attachment to the factions was destroyed and turned entirely to the duke .
 Having exterminated the leaders , and turned their partisans into his friends , the duke laid sufficiently good foundations to his power , having all the Romagna and the Duchy of Urbino ; and the people now beginning to appreciate their prosperity , he gained them all over to himself .
 And because he knew that the past severity had caused some hatred against himself , so , to clear himself in the minds of the people , and gain them entirely to himself , he desired to show that , if any cruelty had been practised , it had not originated with him , but in the natural sternness of the minister .
 But let us return whence we started . I say that the duke , finding himself now sufficiently powerful and partly secured from immediate dangers by having armed himself in his own way , and having in a great measure crushed those forces in his vicinity that could injure him if he wished to proceed with his conquest , had next to consider France , for he knew that the king , who too late was aware of his mistake , would not support him .
 Secondly , by winning to himself all the gentlemen of Rome , so as to be able to curb the Pope with their aid , as has been observed . Thirdly , by converting the college more to himself .
 And as he had no longer to study France ( for the French were already driven out of the kingdom of Naples by the Spaniards , and in this way both were compelled to buy his goodwill ) , he pounced down upon Pisa . After this , Lucca and Siena yielded at once , partly through hatred and partly through fear of the Florentines ; and the Florentines would have had no remedy had he continued to prosper , as he was prospering the year that Alexander died , for he had acquired so much power and reputation that he would have stood by himself , and no longer have depended on the luck and the forces of others , but solely on his own power and ability .
 But it appearing a paltry thing to serve under others , he resolved , with the aid of some citizens of Fermo , to whom the slavery of their country was dearer than its liberty , and with the help of the Vitelleschi , to seize Fermo . So he wrote to Giovanni Fogliani that , having been away from home for many years , he wished to visit him and his city , and in some measure to look upon his patrimony ; and although he had not laboured to acquire anything except honour , yet , in order that the citizens should see he had not spent his time in vain , he desired to come honourably , so would be accompanied by one hundred horsemen , his friends and retainers ; and he entreated Giovanni to arrange that he should be received honourably by the Fermians , all of which would be not only to his honour , but also to that of Giovanni himself , who had brought him up .
 After these murders Oliverotto , mounted on horseback , rode up and down the town and besieged the chief magistrate in the palace , so that in fear the people were forced to obey him , and to form a government , of which he made himself the prince .
 He killed all the malcontents who were able to injure him , and strengthened himself with new civil and military ordinances , in such a way that , in the year during which he held the principality , not only was he secure in the city of Fermo , but he had become formidable to all his neighbours .
 Hence it is to be remarked that , in seizing a state , the usurper ought to examine closely into all those injuries which it is necessary for him to inflict , and to do them all at one stroke so as not to have to repeat them daily ; and thus by not unsettling men he will be able to reassure them , and win them to himself by benefits .
 A principality is created either by the people or by the nobles , accordingly as one or other of them has the opportunity ; for the nobles , seeing they can not withstand the people , begin to cry up the reputation of one of themselves , and they make him a prince , so that under his shadow they can give vent to their ambitions .
 The people , finding they can not resist the nobles , also cry up the reputation of one of themselves , and make him a prince so as to be defended by his authority .
 But when for their own ambitious ends they shun binding themselves , it is a token that they are giving more thought to themselves than to you , and a prince ought to guard against such , and to fear them as if they were open enemies , because in adversity they always help to ruin him .
 But one who , in opposition to the people , becomes a prince by the favour of the nobles , ought , above everything , to seek to win the people over to himself , and this he may easily do if he takes them under his protection .
 These potentates had two principal anxieties : the one , that no foreigner should enter Italy under arms ; the other , that none of themselves should seize more territory .
 They are ready enough to be your soldiers whilst you do not make war , but if war comes they take themselves off or run from the foe ; which I should have little trouble to prove , for the ruin of Italy has been caused by nothing else than by resting all her hopes for many years on mercenaries , and although they formerly made some display and appeared valiant amongst themselves , yet when the foreigners came they showed what they were .
 They had , besides this , used every art to lessen fatigue and danger to themselves and their soldiers , not killing in the fray , but taking prisoners and liberating without ransom .
 These arms may be useful and good in themselves , but for him who calls them in they are always disadvantageous ; for losing , one is undone , and winning , one is their captive .
 And the way to make ready one 's own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be reflected upon , and if one will consider how Philip , the father of Alexander the Great , and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves , to which rules I entirely commit myself .
 And I know that every one will confess that it would be most praiseworthy in a prince to exhibit all the above qualities that are considered good ; but because they can neither be entirely possessed nor observed , for human conditions do not permit it , it is necessary for him to be sufficiently prudent that he may know how to avoid the reproach of those vices which would lose him his state ; and also to keep himself , if it be possible , from those which would not lose him it ; but this not being possible , he may with less hesitation abandon himself to them .
 This will soon make him odious to his subjects , and becoming poor he will be little valued by any one ; thus , with his liberality , having offended many and rewarded few , he is affected by the very first trouble and imperilled by whatever may be the first danger ; recognizing this himself , and wishing to draw back from it , he runs at once into the reproach of being miserly .
 That prince is highly esteemed who conveys this impression of himself , and he who is highly esteemed is not easily conspired against ; for , provided it is well known that he is an excellent man and revered by his people , he can only be attacked with difficulty .
 1 . Some princes , so as to hold securely the state , have disarmed their subjects ; others have kept their subject towns distracted by factions ; others have fostered enmities against themselves ; others have laid themselves out to gain over those whom they distrusted in the beginning of their governments ; some have built fortresses ; some have overthrown and destroyed them .
 And although one can not give a final judgment on all of these things unless one possesses the particulars of those states in which a decision has to be made , nevertheless I will speak as comprehensively as the matter of itself will admit .
 For this reason many consider that a wise prince , when he has the opportunity , ought with craft to foster some animosity against himself , so that , having crushed it , his renown may rise higher .
 And a prince ought , above all things , always endeavour in every action to gain for himself the reputation of being a great and remarkable man .
 And here it is to be noted that a prince ought to take care never to make an alliance with one more powerful than himself for the purposes of attacking others , unless necessity compels him , as is said above ; because if he conquers you are at his discretion , and princes ought to avoid as much as possible being at the discretion of any one .
 Because there are three classes of intellects : one which comprehends by itself ; another which appreciates what others comprehended ; and a third which neither comprehends by itself nor by the showing of others ; the first is the most excellent , the second is good , the third is useless .
 But to enable a prince to form an opinion of his servant there is one test which never fails ; when you see the servant thinking more of his own interests than of yours , and seeking inwardly his own profit in everything , such a man will never make a good servant , nor will you ever be able to trust him ; because he who has the state of another in his hands ought never to think of himself , but always of his prince , and never pay any attention to matters in which the prince is not concerned .
 And if there are some who think that a prince who conveys an impression of his wisdom is not so through his own ability , but through the good advisers that he has around him , beyond doubt they are deceived , because this is an axiom which never fails : that a prince who is not wise himself will never take good advice , unless by chance he has yielded his affairs entirely to one person who happens to be a very prudent man .
 This again either does not happen , or , if it does , it will not be for your security , because that deliverance is of no avail which does not depend upon yourself ; those only are reliable , certain , and durable that depend on yourself and your valour .
 Having carefully considered the subject of the above discourses , and wondering within myself whether the present times were propitious to a new prince , and whether there were elements that would give an opportunity to a wise and virtuous one to introduce a new order of things which would do honour to him and good to the people of this country , it appears to me that so many things concur to favour a new prince that I never knew a time more fit than the present .
 This will not be difficult if you will recall to yourself the actions and lives of the men I have named .
 But when it comes to armies they do not bear comparison , and this springs entirely from the insufficiency of the leaders , since those who are capable are not obedient , and each one seems to himself to know , there having never been any one so distinguished above the rest , either by valour or fortune , that others would yield to him .
 Hence it is that for so long a time , and during so much fighting in the past twenty years , whenever there has been an army wholly Italian , it has always given a poor account of itself ; the first witness to this is Il Taro , afterwards Allesandria , Capua , Genoa , Vaila , Bologna , Mestri .
 Nevertheless , in this mansion of gloom I now proposed to myself a sojourn of some weeks .
 I had so worked upon my imagination as really to believe that about the whole mansion and domain there hung an atmosphere peculiar to themselves and their immediate vicinity - an atmosphere which had no affinity with the air of heaven , but which had reeked up from the decayed trees , and the gray wall , and the silent tarn - a pestilent and mystic vapor , dull , sluggish , faintly discernible , and leaden-hued .
 I dread the events of the future , not in themselves , but in their results .
 For several days ensuing , her name was unmentioned by either Usher or myself ; and during this period I was busied in earnest endeavors to alleviate the melancholy of my friend .
 A striking similitude between the brother and sister now first arrested my attention ; and Usher , divining , perhaps , my thoughts , murmured out some few words from which I learned that the deceased and himself had been twins , and that sympathies of a scarcely intelligible nature had always existed between them .
 It was , beyond doubt , the coincidence alone which had arrested my attention ; for , amid the rattling of the sashes of the casements , and the ordinary commingled noises of the still increasing storm , the sound , in itself , had nothing , surely , which should have interested or disturbed me .
 OBLONSKY WAS TRUTHFUL WITH HIMSELF .
 He could not feel repentant that he , a handsome amorous man of thirty-four , was not in love with his wife , the mother of five living and two dead children and only a year younger than himself .
 Nevertheless he felt his unhappy position and pitied his wife , his children , and himself .
 Oblonsky kept repeating to himself , and could arrive at no conclusion . ' And how well everything was going on till now - how happily we lived !
 ( He vividly pictured to himself Mlle Roland 's roguish black eyes , and her smile . ) ' Besides , as long as she was in the house I never took any liberties .
 ' I ordered him to come the Sunday after next , and not to trouble you or himself needlessly till then , ' said he , evidently repeating a sentence he had prepared .
 Oblonsky understood that Matthew meant to have a joke and draw attention to himself .
 WHEN HE WAS QUITE DRESSED Oblonsky sprinkled some scent on himself , pulled down his cuffs , and as usual distributing in different pockets his cigarette-case , matches , pocket-book , and the watch with its double chain and bunch of charms , he shook out his handkerchief , and feeling clean , sweet , healthy , and physically bright in spite of his misfortune , went with a slight spring in each step into the dining-room where his coffee stood ready . Beside the coffee lay letters and papers from the Office .
 Oblonsky 's tendency and opinions were not his by deliberate choice : they came of themselves , just as he did not choose the fashion of his hats or coats but wore those of the current style .
 ' You think of our children when you want to play with them , but I am always thinking of them , and know they are ruined now , ' she said , evidently repeating one of the phrases she had used to herself again and again during those three days .
 To me you are detestable , disgusting - a stranger , yes , a perfect stranger ! ' She uttered that word stranger , so terrible to herself , with anguish and hatred .
 She saw in him pity for herself but not love . ' No , she hates me ; she will not forgive me , ' he thought .
 Wait a bit , and you 'd be in the same position yourself .
 It 's all very well for you , who have three thousand desyatins in the Karazin District , and such muscles , and are as fresh as a twelve-year-old girl ! But still , you 'll be joining us yourself some day ! ...
 WHEN OBLONSKY ASKED LEVIN HIS REASON for coming to town , Levin had blushed and been angry with himself for blushing , because he could not answer : ' I have come to propose to your sister-in-law , ' although he really had come solely for that purpose .
 But Levin was in love , and therefore Kitty seemed to him so perfect in every respect , so transcending everything earthly , and he seemed to himself so very earthly and insignificant a creature , that the possibility of his being considered worthy of her by others or by herself was to him unimaginable .
 He thought a plain kindly fellow like himself might be loved as a friend , but to be loved with the kind of love he felt for Kitty , a man must be handsome and above all remarkable .
 He had heard that women often love plain ordinary men but he did not believe it , because he judged by himself and he could only love beautiful mysterious exceptional women .
 He had seen in the papers the articles they were discussing , and had read them because they interested him as a development of the bases of natural science - familiar to him as he had studied in that faculty at the University but he had never connected these scientific deductions as to man 's animal origin , reflex actions , biology and sociology , with those questions concerning the meaning to himself of life and death , which had of late more and more frequently occurred to him .
 He walked along the path leading to the skating lake , and kept repeating to himself ' I must not be excited . I must be quiet ! ...
 He had to make an effort and reason with himself that all sorts of people were passing near her and he himself might have come just to skate .
 When he thought about her he could vividly picture to himself her entire person , and especially the charm of her small , fair-haired head , so lightly poised on the shapely girlish shoulders , and the childlike brightness and kindness of her face .
 ' And I am confident of myself when you lean on me , ' he answered , and was immediately frightened of what he had said , and blushed .
 However , I do n't want to talk about myself , and besides it 's impossible to explain everything , ' said Oblonsky . ' Well , and why have you come to Moscow ? ...
 He understood that feeling of Levin 's so well , knew that for Levin all the girls in the world were divided into two classes : one class included all the girls in the world except her , and they had all the usual human failings and were very ordinary girls ; while the other class - herself alone - had no weaknesses and was superior to all humanity .
 Because such happiness does not exist on earth . But I have struggled with myself , and found that without that there 's no life for me .
 Oblonsky repeated these lines with a subtle smile and Levin himself could not help smiling . ' No , but joking apart , ' continued Oblonsky , ' just consider .
 But just consider , here are two women : one insists only on her rights , and her rights are your love , which you can not give her ; and the other sacrifices herself and demands nothing .
 You have a consistent character yourself and you wish all the facts of life to be consistent , but they never are .
 When the Princess herself had married , more than thirty years before , the match had been arranged by an aunt .
 And whatever people might say about the time having come when young people must arrange their future for themselves , she could not believe it any more than she could believe that loaded pistols could ever be the best toys for five-year-old children .
 She felt that this evening , when those two men were to meet for the first time , would decide her fate ; and she kept picturing them to herself , now individually and now together .
 With her thought of Vronsky was mingled some uneasiness , though he was an extremely well-bred and quiet-mannered man ; a sense of something false , not in him , for he was very simple and kindly , but in herself ; whereas in relation to Levin she felt herself quite simple and clear .
 On the other hand when she pictured to herself a future with Vronsky a brilliant vision of happiness rose up before her , while a future with Levin appeared wrapped in mist .
 ' Oh God , must I tell him so myself ? ' she thought . ' Must I really tell him that I do n't care for him ?
 Levin wished to join in the general conversation , but found it impossible , and kept saying to himself , ' Now I will go , ' yet he did not go , but waited for something indefinite .
 ' I hate everybody , including you and myself , ' answered his eyes ; and he took up his hat .
 She vividly pictured to herself that strong manly face , that well-bred calm and the kindness toward everybody he always showed : she remembered the love the man she loved bore her , and again became joyful and with a happy smile put her head on her pillow .
 ' It is a pity , a pity , but I am not to blame , ' she said to herself , but an inner voice said something different .
 ' Lord have mercy , Lord have mercy , Lord have mercy , ' she repeated to herself till she fell asleep . Meanwhile below in the Prince 's little study her parents were having one of their frequent scenes about their favourite daughter .
 He did not know that his behaviour toward Kitty had a name of its own , that it was decoying a girl with no intentions of marrying her , and is one of the evil actions common among brilliant young men like himself .
 In the depths of his heart he did not respect his mother and ( though this he never acknowledged to himself ) did not love her , but in accordance with the views of the set he lived in , and as a result of his education , he could not imagine himself treating her in any way but one altogether submissive and respectful ; the more submissive and respectful he was externally , the less he honoured and loved her in his heart .
 As soon as her brother came up to her she threw her left arm round his neck with a movement that struck Vronsky by its firmness and grace , and drawing him to herself gave him a vigorous kiss .
 It was evident that her beauty and youth gave Anna pleasure and before Kitty had time to regain her self-possession she felt not only that she was under Anna 's influence but that she was in love with her , as young girls often are with married women older than themselves .
 ' I know how you 'll do it all , ' answered Dolly . ' You will tell Matthew to do something that can not be done and will go away yourself , and he will muddle everything , ' and as she spoke her usual ironical smile wrinkled the corners of Dolly 's mouth .
 If I had any pride , I should not have put myself into such a position . ' And he pictured to himself Vronsky , happy , kind , clever , calm , and certainly never placing himself in such a terrible position as he , Levin , had been in that evening .
 On his way back in the train he talked with his fellow-passengers about politics and the new railways , and felt oppressed , just as in Moscow , by the confusion of the views expressed , by discontent with himself and a vague sense of shame .
 He felt that he was himself and did not wish to be anyone else .
 All these traces of his old life seemed to seize hold of him and say , ' No , you will not escape us and will not be different , but will remain such as you have been : full of doubts ; full of dissatisfaction with yourself , and of vain attempts at improvement followed by failures , and continual hopes of the happiness which has escaped you and is impossible for you . '
 He could not imagine the love of woman without marriage , and even pictured to himself a family first and then the woman who would give him the family .
 And suddenly the joyous thought came uppermost : ' In two years ' time I shall have two Dutch cows in my herd and Pava herself may still be alive ; there will be twelve cows by Berkut , and these three to crown all - splendid ! '
 ' And it is just the same with me ! ' he said to himself .
 And yet at that very point of her recollections when she remembered Vronsky , the feeling of shame grew stronger and some inner voice seemed to say to her , ' warm , very warm , burning ! ' ' Well , what of it ? ' she finally said to herself with decision , changing her position on the seat .
 She rose and came to herself , understanding that they had stopped at a station and that this was the guard .
 She was particularly struck by the feeling of dissatisfaction with herself which she experienced when she met him . It was that ordinary well-known feeling , as if she were dissembling , which she experienced in regard to her husband , but formerly she had not noticed it , while now she was clearly and painfully conscious of it .
 ' Did you have a good night ? ' he inquired , bowing toward them both , and leaving it to Karenin to take the greeting as meant for himself and to recognize him , or not , as he pleased .
 ' This is all just as it was before , but how is it that I never noticed it before ? ' said Anna to herself . ' Or is it that she is specially irritated this morning ?
 ' So there is no need to tell him ! Besides ; thank Heaven there is nothing to tell ! ' she said to herself .
 Anna saw that he wanted to tell her something pleasant to himself about that affair , and by questioning she led him on to tell her all about it .
 ' After all , he is a good man : truthful , kind , and remarkable in his own sphere , ' said Anna to herself when she had returned to her room , as if defending him from some one who accused him and declared it was impossible to love him . ' But why do his ears stick out so ?
 But have a wash and smarten yourself up , ' said the Baroness , again sitting down and carefully turning a small screw of the coffee-pot . ' Pierre , pass me the coffee , ' she said to Petritsky whom , not concealing their relations , she called Pierre ( the French for Peter ) , because of his surname .
 Such a discovery could now only deprive her of her accustomed family life , and she let herself be deceived , despising him , and especially herself , for such weakness .
 I 'm all obedience , ' he said to his wife , as he sat down again . ' And look here , Kate , ' he went on , turning to his youngest daughter : ' You must wake up one fine morning and say to yourself `` Why , I am quite well and happy , and will go out to walk in the frost again with Papa . ''
 Dolly was thinking about herself .
 Now she knew them all as well as the inhabitants of a provincial town know one another ; she knew the habits and weaknesses of each of them , and where the shoe pinched this or that foot ; she knew their relations to one another and to the governing centre ; she knew who sided with whom , and how and by what means each supported himself , and who agreed or disagreed with whom and about what ; but ( in spite of admonitions and advice from the Countess Lydia Ivanovna ) this bureaucratic circle of male interests could not interest Anna , and she avoided it .
 No one knows ; but their host 's footman , in answer to their question whether `` girls '' lived there , replies that there are a lot of them thereabouts . After dinner the young men go into the host 's study to compose a letter to the fair stranger , and , having written one full of passion and containing a declaration , they carry it upstairs themselves , in order to explain anything that might not be quite clear in the letter . '
 ' Have you heard ? That that Maltyshcheva woman also - not the daughter but the mother - is having a diable rose costume made for herself ? '
 Formerly , when I was told to consider him wise , I kept trying to , and thought I was stupid myself because I was unable to perceive his wisdom ; but as soon as I said to myself , he 's stupid ( only in a whisper of course ) , it all became quite clear !
 One of us is stupid , and you know it 's impossible to say so of oneself . '
 I can not think about you and about myself separately .
 ' Friends we shall not be , you know that yourself ; but whether we shall be the happiest or the most miserable of human beings ... rests with you . '
 Not these two ladies alone , but nearly all those present in the drawing-room , even the Princess Myagkaya and Betsy herself , several times glanced across at the pair who had gone away from the general circle , as if their having done so disturbed the others .
 ' Love , ' she slowly repeated to herself , and suddenly while releasing the lace , she added aloud : ' The reason I dislike that word is that it means too much for me , far more than you can understand , ' and she looked him in the face . ' Au revoir ! '
 He did not undress , but paced up and down with his even step on the resounding parquet floor of the dining-room , which was lit by one lamp , over the carpet of the dark drawing-room , where a light was reflected only from a recently painted portrait of himself which hung above the sofa , and on through her sitting-room , where two candles were burning , lighting up the portraits of her relatives and friends and the elegant knick-knacks , long familiar to him , on her writing-table .
 Besides ... to be jealous is to degrade myself and her , ' he said to himself as he entered her sitting-room .
 And again he repeated to himself in the dining-room : ' Yes , it is necessary to decide , and stop it , and express my opinion ... ' And again in the drawing-room , at the turn into her room , he asked himself ' Decide what ? ' and then , ' What has happened ? ' and he replied ' Nothing , ' and remembered that jealousy is a feeling which insults a wife ; but in the drawing-room he came again to the conviction that something had happened .
 For the first time he vividly pictured to himself her personal life , her thoughts , her wishes ; but the idea that she might and should have her own independent life appeared to him so dreadful that he hastened to drive it away .
 But for him , who knew her - knew that when he went to bed five minutes late she noticed it and asked the reason - knew that she had always immediately told him all her joys , pleasures and sorrows - for him , her reluctance to notice his state of mind , or to say a word about herself , meant much . He saw that the depths of her soul , till now always open , were closed to him .
 Your feelings concern your own conscience , but it is my duty to you , to myself , and to God , to point out to you your duties .
 But I am not talking of myself . The chief persons concerned are our son and yourself .
 ' It 's late , it 's late , ' she whispered to herself , and smiled .
 Pale , with trembling lower jaw , he stood over her , entreating her to be calm , himself not knowing why or how .
 ' Not now ; later , when I am calmer ! ' she said to herself .
 WHEN LEVIN FIRST RETURNED FROM MOSCOW , and while he still started and blushed every time he remembered the disgrace of the refusal , he had said to himself , ' I blushed and started like this when I was ploughed in physics and had to remain in the second class ; and in the same way I felt myself lost when I made a mess of my sister 's affair that had been entrusted to me .
 He was so successful in persuading his brother , and in lending him money for the journey without irritating him , that he was satisfied with himself in this respect .
 I do n't like to do things badly myself and I see that others do n't .
 As usual during his solitude a mass of thoughts and feelings he could not express to those around had collected in his mind , and now he poured out to Oblonsky the poetic joy of spring , his failures , his plans concerning the estate , his thoughts and remarks about the books he had read , and especially the idea of his own book , the basis of which , though he did not notice it himself , was a criticism of all previous works on agriculture .
 Oblonsky went down and himself carefully took the canvas cover off the varnished case , opened it , and set to work to put together his valuable gun , which was of the newest type .
 ' Here it is ! ' answered Levin , pointing to Laska , who with one ear erect , wagging her fluffy , high-arched tail , stepping slowly as if to prolong the pleasure and seeming almost to smile , brought the dead bird to her master . ' Well , I 'm glad you got it , ' said Levin , and while he spoke he was already experiencing a feeling of envy at not having killed the bird himself .
 Ryabinin himself was already in the house and met the two friends in the hall .
 He did not distinguish what kind of love it was , great or small , passionate or passionless , guilty or pure ( he himself , the father of a family , kept a ballet girl , and was therefore lenient in these matters ) : but he knew that it was a love affair which displeased those whom it is necessary to please , and he therefore disapproved of his brother 's conduct .
 Vronsky respected and liked Yashvin , particularly because he felt that the latter liked him , not for his name and money but for himself .
 Well then , we will drink by ourselves .
 During these last days he had not exercised her himself , but had entrusted it to the trainer , and therefore did not in the least know in what condition she had arrived or now was .
 Whatever our fate is or may be , we have made it and do not complain of it , ' he said , joining Anna and himself in the word ' we . ' ' No , they needs must teach us how to live .
 It was a feeling of revulsion against something , against Karenin , or against himself or against the whole world - he hardly knew which .
 And for the first time the clear idea occurred to him that it was necessary to put an end to all this falsehood , and the sooner the better . ' Throw up everything and let us two conceal ourselves somewhere alone with our love , ' said he to himself .
 They had not arranged this , but it had come about of itself .
 They would have considered it unworthy of themselves to deceive that child .
 It evoked both in Vronsky and in Anna a feeling such as a sailor might have who saw by the compass that the direction in which he was swiftly sailing diverged widely from the right course but was quite unable to stop , and felt that every moment was taking him farther and farther astray , and that to acknowledge to himself that he was diverging from the right direction was tantamount to acknowledging that he was lost .
 It was as if there was something that she could not , and would not , make clear to herself , or as if , as soon as she began to speak about this matter , she , the real Anna , withdrew into herself and another woman appeared who was strange and alien to him , whom he feared and did not like , and who resisted him .
 I will tell it you all in advance , ' and an evil light came into her eyes which a minute before had been so tender . ' - `` Ah , you love another and have entered into a guilty union with him ? '' - ' ( mimicking her husband , she laid just such a stress on the word guilty as Karenin himself would have done ) . ' - " I warned you of the consequences from the religious , civil , and family points of view .
 He is not a man , but a machine , and a cruel machine when angry , ' she added , picturing Karenin to herself with every detail of his figure and way of speaking ,
 Yashvin overtook him with his cap and led him home , and in half an hour Vronsky came to himself .
 Karenin thought and said that in no previous year had he had so much official business as this year ; but he was not conscious of the fact that this year he invented work for himself , and that this was one of the means of keeping that compartment closed where lay his feelings for and thoughts of his family , which became more terrible the longer they lay there .
 He did not let himself think about this and did not think about it , yet at the bottom of his soul , without admitting it to himself or having any proofs or even suspicions of it , he nevertheless knew certainly that he was a wronged husband , and was therefore profoundly unhappy .
 How often during the eight years of happy married life with his wife , when he saw others who were unfaithful wives or deceived husbands , had Karenin said to himself , ' How could they let it come to that ?
 Without acknowledging it to himself , Karenin now looked out for opportunities of having a third person present at his interviews with his wife .
 She felt this herself , especially as by the inquisitive way Slyudin looked at her she noticed that he seemed to be watching her .
 But no , lies and propriety is all he cares about , ' said Anna to herself , without considering what she really wanted of her husband or what she would have liked him to be .
 ' Yes , that lady - and those others - are very excited too ; it is quite natural , ' he said to himself . He did not wish to look at her , but his eyes were involuntarily drawn toward her .
 On leaving the stand Karenin as usual spoke to people he met , and Anna as usual had to reply and make conversation ; but she was beside herself and walked as in a dream , holding her husband 's arm .
 Karenin had begun to speak boldly but when he realized clearly what he was talking about the fear she was experiencing communicated itself to him .
 By this contrast to herself Kitty was specially attracted .
 ' Well , if you want to so much , I will inquire about her first and will speak to her myself , ' answered her mother . ' What do you see particular in her ?
 THE PARTICULARS THE PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKAYA LEARNT about Varenka 's past and about her relations with Madame Stahl , and about Madame Stahl herself , were the following :
 Some people said that she had made for herself a position in Society by her pose as a philanthropic and highly religious woman ; others said that she really was the highly moral being , living only to do good , that she seemed to be .
 ' Shameful in what respect ? ' she said . ' You could not have told a man who was himself indifferent to you that you loved him ? '
 She guessed it to be something that she could not tell her mother and did not even say to herself .
 It was one of those things which one knows and yet can not say even to oneself - so dreadful and shameful would it be to make a mistake .
 Kitty said to herself quite horrified ; and then , ' No , it is impossible , it must not be !
 In the gallery they met Varenka herself .
 ' I do n't know very well myself .
 ' To appear better than others to myself and to God - to deceive everybody .
 ' But I am not talking about others , only about myself . '
 With his natural kind heart he of course liked human beings more than he disliked them , and naturally the peasants were included ; but he could not like or dislike the people as if they were something apart , because he not only lived among them , his interests closely bound up with theirs , but he considered himself one of the people and could not find in himself any special qualities or defects which placed him in contrast with them .
 I understand conscription which touches the fate of my children , of my brothers and myself , and I am ready to discuss what concerns me ; but how to dispose of forty thousand roubles of Zemstvo money , or how to try the idiot Aleshka , I neither understand nor can take part in . '
 ' Wait a moment ! One ca n't reason that way , you know , ' he remarked ; but Constantine , wishing to justify the failing of which he was aware in himself ( his indifference to the general welfare ) , continued :
 THE PERSONAL MATTER THAT OCCUPIED LEVIN while he was talking with his brother was this . The year before , when visiting a field that was being mown , he had lost his temper with his steward , and to calm himself had used a remedy of his own - he took a scythe from one of the peasants and himself began mowing .
 ' It 's ready , master ! Like a razor , it will mow of itself , ' said Titus , taking off his cap and smiling as he handed the scythe .
 ' He 's the master , he must work ; he 's working for himself ' ...
 The scythe seemed to mow of itself .
 There was nowhere to hang dresses , because what few wardrobes there were would not shut , or else opened of themselves when anyone passed by .
 She gave her mirror a last glance and was satisfied with herself .
 There was no one in church except peasants , innkeepers and their womenfolk ; but Dolly saw , or thought she saw , the rapture produced in them by her children and herself .
 Still crying over the injustice done him , he ate the pudding , muttering between sobs : ' Eat some yourself ... let us both eat ... together ! '
 Previously Miss Hull used to find one and point it out to her ; but this time Lily herself found a fine big one and there was a general shout of delight : ' Lily has found a mushroom ! '
 She is expected to choose for herself , yet she has no choice ; she can only say `` Yes '' or `` No . '' - '
 Levin saw that she was unhappy , and tried to comfort her by saying that it did not prove that anything was wrong with them , that all children fought ; but as he spoke he thought to himself : ' No , I 'll not humbug my children and wo n't speak French with them . But I sha n't have children like these .
 Then he went there himself and arranged to have the harvest gathered in partly by hired labourers and partly by peasants paid in kind .
 Levin had often admired that kind of life , had often envied the folk who lived it ; but that day , especially after what he had seen for the first time of the relations between Vanka Parmenich and his young wife , it struck him that it depended on himself to change his wearisome , idle , and artificial personal life for that pure , delightful life of common toil .
 How am I to do it ? ' he again asked himself . , and could find no reply . ' However , I have not slept all night and ca n't render a clear account of myself now , ' he thought , ' but I 'll clear it up later .
 In the whole world there was only one being able to unite in itself the universe and the meaning of life for him .
 ' No , ' said he to himself . ' Beautiful as is that life of simplicity and toil , I can not turn to it .
 Being aware of this and of the fact that any expression he could at that moment find for his feelings would be incompatible with the situation , he tried to conceal all signs of life within himself and neither moved nor looked at her .
 It is not I who am guilty , ' he said to himself , ' but it is she .
 ' I ought not to be unhappy because a despicable woman has committed a crime , but I must find the best way out of this painful situation in which she has placed me . And find it I will , ' said he to himself , frowning more and more .
 Semenov , Chagin , Sigonin : .. ' he passed them in review . ' It 's true a kind of unreasonable ridicule falls on these men , but I never could see it in any other light than as a misfortune , and felt nothing but sympathy , ' Karenin reflected , though it was not true : he had never felt any sympathy of the kind , and the more cases he had come across of husbands being betrayed by their wives the better the opinion he had had of himself .
 Supposing I challenged him ... ' continued Karenin ; and vividly picturing to himself the night he would spend after the challenge , and the sensation of having a pistol pointed at him , he shuddered and realized that he would never do it . ' Supposing , ' he went on , ' they showed me how to do it , placed me , and I pulled the trigger ... '
 He did not acknowledge it to himself , but in the depths of his soul he wished her to suffer for impairing his peace of mind and his honour . And having reviewed the possibilities of a duel , of divorce , and of separation , and having again rejected them , Karenin came to the conclusion that there was only one course to be followed : to keep her with him , hiding from the world what had happened , and taking all necessary steps to put a stop to her love-affair , and above all ( though he did not confess this to himself to punish her .
 ' It is only by this course that I can conform with religion , ' said he to himself . ' It is the only way that makes it possible for me not to disown my guilty wife and to give her a chance of repenting , and even , painful as it will be , to devote part of my powers to her redemption . '
 He could of course never again revive his respect for her ; but there was no occasion for him to spoil his own life and to suffer just because she had proved a bad and unfaithful wife . ' Yes , time goes on ; and time , which cures everything , will restore the old conditions , ' said Karenin to himself .
 He tried to read but could not awaken in himself the lively interest he had felt for the Eugubine Tables .
 As soon as the footman , who had brought in the tea , had left the room , Karenin rose and went to the writing-table . Drawing toward himself the portfolio of current affairs , with a scarcely perceptible smile of self-satisfaction , he took a pencil from the stand and became absorbed in reading some intricate papers he had sent for , relating to the impending complication .
 Like all such matters it went on of itself , by inertia .
 The pain she had inflicted on herself and her husband would now , she thought , be compensated for by the fact that the matter would be settled .
 ' Oh , dear ! What am I doing ! ' she said to herself suddenly , feeling pain in both sides of her head .
 ' As if I could help loving him , ' she said to herself , looking into his frightened and yet happy face . ' And is it possible that he would take sides with his father to torment me ? '
 She stopped and looked at the crown of an aspen trembling in the wind , with its clean-washed leaves glistening brilliantly in the cold sunshine , and she felt that they would not forgive , that everybody would now be as pitiless toward her as the sky and the trees , and again she felt that duality in her soul . ' No , no , I must not think , ' she said to herself ; ' I must get ready to go .
 She felt that , insignificant as it had appeared that morning , the position she held in Society was dear to her , and that she would not have the strength to change it for the degraded position of a woman who had forsaken husband and child and formed a union with her lover ; that , however much she tried , she could not become stronger than herself .
 The approaching step of the footman recalled her to herself , and hiding her face from him she pretended to be writing .
 And she felt again a schism in her soul , and again was frightened by the feeling ; so she seized the first pretext for action that occurred to her to divert her thoughts from herself . ' I must see Alexis , ' as she called Vronsky in her thoughts .
 When the elder brother , having a number of debts , married the Princess Varya Chirkova , the daughter of a penniless Decembrist , Alexis gave up to his brother the income from his father 's fortune , stipulating for only 25,000 roubles a year for himself .
 But latterly new inner relations had sprung up between himself and her , which frightened him by their indefiniteness .
 Ambition was the old motive of his childhood and youth , one which he did not acknowledge even to himself , but which was so strong a passion that it now struggled against his love .
 A playmate of his childhood , and his fellow-pupil at the Cadet Corps ; Serpukhovskoy , who belonged to the same social circle , and who had finished the same year as himself and had been his rival in the classroom , at gymnastics , in mischief , and in ambitious dreams , had just returned from Central Asia , where he had gained two steps in official rank and had won a distinction rarely awarded to so young a General .
 As soon as he reached Petersburg people began to talk about him as a rising star of the first magnitude : Of the same age as Vronsky , and his messmate , Serpukhovskoy was already a General expecting an appointment that might have an influence on State affairs ; while Vronsky , though independent and brilliant and beloved by an enchanting woman , remained only a Cavalry Captain and was allowed to be as independent as he pleased . ' Of course I am not jealous and could not be jealous of Serpukhovskoy , but his promotion shows me that if one bides one 's time the career of such a man as myself may be very quickly made .
 But there is a way of doing a thing , and I think that , though your action was good in itself , you did not do it in the right way . '
 All that he saw from the carriage window through the cold pure air in the pale light of the evening sky seemed as fresh , bright and vigorous as he was himself . The roofs of the houses glittered in the evening sun ; the sharp outlines of the fences and corners of buildings , the figures of people and vehicles they occasionally met , the motionless verdure of the grass and trees , the fields of potatoes with their clear-cut ridge , the slanting shadows of the houses and trees , the bushes and even the potato ridges - it was all pleasant and like a landscape newly painted and varnished .
 Her face was veiled , but his joyous glance took in that special manner of walking peculiar to her alone : the droop of her shoulders , the poise of her head ; and immediately a thrill passed like an electric current through his body , and with renewed force he became conscious of himself from the elastic movement of his firm legs to the motion of his lungs as he breathed , and of something tickling his lips .
 ' It was not at all hard for me - it all came about of itself , ' she said , irritably . ' And here ... ' she pulled her husband 's note from under her glove .
 Now that he held his letter he could not help imagining to himself the challenge that he would no doubt find waiting for him that evening or next day , and the duel , when he would be standing with the same cold proud look as his face bore that moment , and having fired into the air would be awaiting the shot from the injured husband .
 She understood at once that he had already considered this by himself , knew that whatever he might say he would not tell her all that he was thinking , and knew that her last hopes had been deceived .
 I hope ... ' he became confused and blushed ' that you will allow me to arrange and to think out a life for ourselves .
 But now he clearly saw ( the book on agriculture which he was writing , in which the labourer was the chief factor in farming , helped much in this direction ) that the agricultural work he was carrying on was founded on a bitter and obstinate struggle between himself and his labourers , in which on the one side - his - there was a continual and strenuous attempt to bring everything into accord with what were considered the best models , while on the other side there was the natural order of things .
 When he called on Dolly , she had asked him to come again and come with the object of once more proposing to her sister , letting him feel that her sister would now accept him . Levin himself having seen Kitty Shcherbatskaya knew that he had not ceased to love her , yet he could not go to the Oblonskys ' house while she was there .
 That he had proposed and she had refused him had put an impossible barrier between them . ' I can not ask her to be my wife just because she can not be the wife of the man she wanted , ' he said to himself , and this thought rendered him cold and hostile toward her .
 ' Ours is peasant 's business ; we look after everything ourselves .
 If a labourer is no good , let him go ! We can manage for ourselves . '
 Sviyazhsky 's home life was extremely pleasant , and Sviyazhsky himself was the best type of social worker that Levin had ever known , and Levin always found him very interesting .
 Not to mention the fact that the sight of the happy doves in their well-ordered nest , so content with themselves and everybody else , had a cheering effect on him , he now wanted , dissatisfied with life as he was , to get at the secret which gave Sviyazhsky such clearness , definiteness , and cheerfulness .
 ' Every possible relation to the power of labour has been defined and investigated , ' he said . ' The remnant of barbarism , the primitive commune with its reciprocal bonds , falls to pieces of itself when serfdom is abolished , and there is nothing left but free labour ; its forms are defined and ready and we must accept them .
 ' All I wish to say is , ' said Levin , ' why should we not seek them for ourselves ? '
 ' And how do you agree with Spencer yourself in this matter ? '
 There was this amiable Sviyazhsky , who kept his opinions only for social use , and evidently had some other bases of life which Levin could not discern , while with that crowd , whose name is legion , he directed public opinion by means of thoughts foreign to himself ; and that embittered landowner with perfectly sound views he had wrung painfully from life , but wrong in his bitterness toward a whole class , and that the best class in Russia , and Levin 's own discontent with his own activity , and his vague hope of finding a remedy for all these things - all this merged into a feeling of restlessness and expectation of a speedy solution .
 It was true that the peasants of that group , though they had agreed to farm the land on the new conditions , did not speak of it as co-operatively held land , but as land held for payment in kind ; and that the members of that group and Rezunov himself said to Levin : ' If you would only accept money for the land it would be less trouble for you , and we should feel freer . ' Moreover , these peasants , on all sorts of pretexts , kept putting off the building of the cattle-sheds and granary they had agreed to put up on this land , and dragged the matter on till winter .
 But in spite of this , Levin thought matters were getting on , and that by keeping strict accounts and insisting on having his way he would eventually be able to prove to the peasants the advantage of these new arrangements , and that things would then go on of themselves .
 The fact that the author of it is myself , Constantine Levin , who once went to a ball in a black tie , whom Kitty Shcherbatskaya refused , and who seems so pitiful and insignificant to himself proves nothing .
 ' That must form a short preface , such as I formerly considered unnecessary . ' He rose to go to his writing-table , and Laska , who was lying at his feet , stretched herself , also got up , and looked round at him as if asking where she was to go to .
 ' I am not bothering about them : I am doing it for myself . '
 He frowned , and without replying again sat down to his work , repeating to himself all that he had been thinking about its importance .
 Angry with himself for this bad feeling Levin ran into the hall ; and as soon as he had a near view of his brother this feeling of disappointment vanished and was replaced by pity .
 Nicholas probably felt the same ; he began questioning his brother about his affairs , and Levin was glad to talk about himself because he could do so without any pretence : He told Nicholas of his plans and activities .
 It was within himself too he felt it .
 And at the thought of how it was going to happen she felt so sorry for herself that the tears came into her eyes and she could not continue .
 ' Soon , very soon , it will come to an end of itself ! ' she muttered , and at the thought of the nearness of death , which she now desired , tears again filled her eyes .
 ' That 's all very well , but you think only of yourself !
 Stremov stood aside , pretending to have blindly followed Karenin 's plans and to be himself indignant now at what had been done , thus undermining Karenin .
 ' Even if your worst suspicions proved correct , I never took upon myself , and never will , to judge either side ; and I see no reason why our relations should change .
 Karenin himself , as the Petersburg way is when one dines with ladies , was in evening dress with a white tie , and Oblonsky saw by his face that he had come only to keep his promise , and by being in that company was fulfilling an unpleasant duty .
 Not only in that room but in the whole world there existed for him nothing but Kitty and himself , and he had now acquired a great significance and importance .
 ' I ca n't quite agree with you , ' answered Karenin . ' It seems to me that we must admit that the process of studying the forms of a language has in itself a beneficial effect on spiritual development .
 Karenin smiled coldly with his lips only , wishing to prove to her and to himself the firmness of his conviction ; but this passionate defence , though it did not shake him , lacerated his wound .
 She was silent , thinking of herself and her own sorrow , and then suddenly and energetically she raised her head and folded her hands as in prayer .
 Wait a bit . I will tell you about myself .
 With joyful faces they surrounded Levin , disputing among themselves , and offering him their services .
 As soon as she had gone out he heard the sound of very , very rapid light steps on the parquet floor , and his joy , his life , his own self , the best in himself , that which he had sought and yearned for so long , advanced very , very rapidly towards him .
 Evidently everybody had agreed with that , though they were too polite to say so . ' However , that point is settled and not worth thinking about , ' said Karenin to himself ; and with nothing in his mind but his impending journey and his work of inspection , he went to his room and asked the doorkeeper , who followed him , where his valet was .
 He was vexed , not so much at having missed that post himself and at having been obviously passed over , as at the incomprehensible and surprising fact that they did not realize how much less suitable than anyone else was that voluble windbag , Stremov .
 ' Supposing it is true ? ' he said to himself . ' If it is true , and at the moment of suffering and approach to death she is sincerely repentant , and I , believing it to be false , refuse to come ?
 He felt that the husband in his sorrow was magnanimous , while he himself was mean and trivial in his deceptions .
 And just now , when he knew her and loved her in the right way , he had been humiliated before her and had lost her for ever , leaving her nothing but a shameful memory of himself .
 ' To sleep , to forget ! ' he said to himself with the calm certainty of a healthy man that being tired and in want of sleep he would at once fall asleep .
 ' Sleep , sleep , ' he kept repeating to himself .
 For a minute or two he stood motionless with bowed head , a strained expression of effort on his face , holding the revolver in his hand . ' Of course ! ' he said to himself , as if led to a definite conclusion by a logical , continued , and clear line of reasoning .
 By his sick wife 's bedside he had for the first time in his life given rein to that feeling of tender sympathy which the suffering of others evoked in him ; and which he had till then been ashamed of , as of a weakness ; and his pity for her , remorse at having wished for her death , and above all the joy of forgiving , in itself gave him not only relief from suffering but inward peace such as he had never before experienced .
 He pitied his son too , more than he had done before , and reproached himself for not having paid more attention to him .
 At first commiseration alone drew his attention to the delicate infant , not his daughter , who had been neglected during her mother 's illness and would certainly have died then had it not been for his solicitude ; and he himself hardly knew how he grew fond of her .
 At such moments especially Karenin felt quite calm and at peace with himself , seeing nothing exceptional in his position and nothing that ought to be altered .
 The healthy-looking wet-nurse in her finery , evidently afraid of being dismissed , muttered something to herself as she covered her well-developed breast , and smiled contemptuously at the idea of her not having sufficient milk .
 ' I am very grateful for your confidence , but ... ' he began in confusion , feeling with vexation that what he could so clearly decide within himself he was unable to discuss in the presence of the Princess Tverskaya , who appeared to him the personification of that coarse power which would rule his life in the eye of the world , and which prevented him from yielding to his feelings of love and forgiveness .
 But the question whom my wife will and whom she will not receive she will decide for herself . '
 Try and realize it : even his looks have a physical effect on me and drive me beside myself .
 Again he smiled his almond-oil smile . ' I will begin at the beginning : you married a man twenty years older than yourself .
 I understand that you can not take it upon yourself to express your wishes and feelings . '
 ' I hope you believe in my affection for my sister and my sincere attachment and respect for yourself , ' said he , blushing .
 Tell me yourself what would give you real happiness and peace of mind !
 Karenin , his face drawn with distress , muttered something to himself and made no reply .
 Should he keep him himself ?
 What Dolly had said in Moscow , to the effect that in considering a divorce he was thinking of himself and not of Anna , who would then be irretrievably lost , had sunk into his heart . And having connected these words with his forgiveness and with his attachment to the children , he now understood them in his own way .
 How have I deserved this ? ' thought Karenin , recalling the particulars of a divorce-suit in which the husband took all the blame on himself ; and with the same ashamed gesture with which Vronsky had covered his face , he hid his own in his hands .
 However , I will improve on it later , ' he said to himself with a smile .
 She wished to calm him and herself , but it was too late .
 ' Do n't talk and do n't think about it ' he said , playing with her hand and trying to draw her attention to himself ; but she continued to gaze past him .
 ' I have doubted , and still doubt , everything , ' replied Levin in a voice unpleasant to himself , and stopped .
 Then what sort of education can you give your little ones if you do not conquer in yourself the temptations of the devil , who is leading you into unbelief ? ' he asked in mild rebuke . ' If you love your offspring , then you , as a kind father , will desire not only riches , luxury , and honours for your child , but will desire his salvation , his spiritual advancement by the light of truth .
 ' I have never come across a more. decided foe of marriage than yourself , ' remarked Sergius Ivanich .
 ' No , this wo n't do ! ' he said to himself despairingly . ' I will go to her and tell her for the last time that we are now free , and that perhaps we had better keep so !
 Anything would be better than continual shame , misery , infidelity ! ' With his heart full of despair and bitterness toward every one , toward himself and her , he left the hotel and went to her .
 The priest continually sent a chanter or deacon to see whether the bridegroom had arrived , and he himself , in his purple surplice with the embroidered girdle , went with increasing frequency to the side door in expectation of the bridegroom .
 The whole of her life , all her desires and hopes , were concentrated on this one man , still incomprehensible to her , to whom she was bound by a feeling - even more incomprehensible than the man himself - which now attracted and now repelled her .
 Meantime she went on living under the conditions of her old life and was horrified at herself , at her utter and unconquerable indifference to all her past , the things , habits , and people who had loved and still loved her , to her mother who was hurt by her indifference , to her dear , affectionate father whom she had previously loved more than anyone else on earth .
 She could not think of or desire anything but life with this man ; but , as that life had not yet begun , she could not even clearly picture it to herself .
 She remembered not herself only , but all the women with whom she was intimate or acquainted : thought of them as they had been at that most solemn moment of their lives when , like Kitty , they had stood beneath the nuptial crown with love , hope and fear in their hearts , renouncing the past and entering upon the mystic future .
 After the usual questions of whether they wished to be married and whether they had promised themselves to others , and their answers , which sounded strange to themselves , the second part of the service began .
 ' Yes , he is a decent fellow and looks at the matter in the right way , ' said Vronsky to himself , understanding the meaning of the other 's look and the change of subject . ' I can introduce him to Anna , as he sees the matter rightly . '
 THE NEGLECTED OLD PALAZZO with its high stucco ceilings , its wall frescoes and mosaic floors , with heavy yellow damask hangings at the big windows , vases standing on brackets and mantelshelves , carved doors , and sombre halls filled with pictures , - that palazzo , when they had moved into it , by its very appearance kept alive in Vronsky the pleasant delusion that he was not so much a Russian landowner and equerry without a post as an enlightened connoisseur and art patron , and withal a modest artist himself , who had renounced the world , his connections and ambitions , for the sake of the woman he loved .
 Vronsky painted her , admired her beauty and her ' mediaevalness , ' and Anna dared not confess to herself that she was afraid of being jealous of the nurse ; so she treated the woman with special kindness and spoilt her and her little son .
 When he entered the Academy and won a reputation for himself he , not being stupid , wanted to get same education .
 ' Shut up , for heaven 's sake ! ' cried Mikhaylov with tears in his voice , stopping his ears with his hands as he went into his workroom behind a partition and locked the door behind him . ' What a duffer ! ' he muttered to himself as he seated himself at the table , and having opened a portfolio he at once set to work with particular ardour at an unfinished drawing .
 He expected all this , saw it in their faces , in the careless indifference with which they talked among themselves , looked at the lay figures and busts and unconcernedly walked about while waiting for him to uncover his picture .
 Anna 's portrait , the same subject painted from nature by both of them , should have shown him the difference between Mikhaylov and himself ; but Vronsky did not see it .
 Though he had imagined his ideas about family life to be most exact , he , like all men , had involuntarily pictured it to himself as merely the enjoyment of love - which nothing should be allowed to hinder and from which one should not be distracted by petty cares .
 Far an instant he was offended , but immediately knew he could not be offended with her because she was himself .
 One impulse , an habitual one , drew him to shift the blame from himself and lay it upon her ; but another , and more powerful one , drew him to smooth over the breach as quickly as possible and not allow it to widen .
 Like a man half-asleep and oppressed with pain , he wanted to tear off the aching part and cast it from him , but found on waking that the aching part was - himself .
 They both tried in after life to efface from their memories all the ugly shameful circumstances of this unhealthy time during which they were rarely in a normal state and rarely themselves .
 If he only knew that all the rest of them are no more than Peter the cook to me ! ' and she glanced with a feeling of proprietorship strange to herself , at the nape of his red neck . ' Though it 's a pity to interrupt him at his work ( but he 'll have time enough ) I must see his face .
 Of course it is not her fault , ' he said to himself .
 And Levin dimly felt that though she was not herself in fault - she never could be in fault - it was the fault of her bringing up , which was too superficial and frivolous . ' That fool Charsky !
 ' No , this is awful ... being a sort of slave ! ' exclaimed Levin , unable to restrain his annoyance any longer , but immediately conscious that he had dealt a blow to himself .
 Levin told his wife he believed she only wanted to go that she might be of use , and agreed that Mary Nikolavna 's presence at his brother 's would not make it at all improper ; but he was going , dissatisfied in the depths of his heart with both himself and her .
 He was dissatisfied with her because she could not face letting him go when it was necessary ( and how strange it was to think that he , who such a short time ago dared not believe in the happiness of her loving him , now felt unhappy because she loved him too much ! ) , and dissatisfied with himself because he had not maintained his authority .
 ' Do n't come here , ' muttered the sick man angrily . ' I can myself ... '
 If I walk on tiptoe he will be displeased , and yet I am ashamed to tread on the whole of my foot . ' But Kitty evidently did not think and had no time to think of herself .
 She , prompted by some inner conviction , thought of him , and everything came out right . She talked to him about herself and about her wedding , smiled , sympathized , caressed him , mentioned cases of recovery , and it was all successful , so she evidently knew what she was about .
 She ordered supper to be brought , unpacked their things herself , helped to make the beds and did not forget to sprinkle insect powder on them .
 In spite of his assurances to the contrary she was persuaded that he was a Christian , like , and even better than , herself and that all he said about it was one of his funny male whims , like his sayings about her embroidery : that good people darn holes , while she cut holes on purpose ... and so on .
 The invalid fell quietly asleep , but awoke half an hour later with a fit of coughing , and immediately every hope fled from those around him and from himself .
 The reality of his sufferings destroyed it , leaving no trace nor even any recollection of the former hopes , in Levin , Kitty , or the patient himself .
 Every one wished that he would die quickly , and they all , concealing that feeling , brought him bottles of medicine , went to fetch medicines and doctors , and deceived him and themselves and one another .
 Only the invalid himself did not show that desire , but on the contrary was angry because the doctor had not been fetched , and he continued taking medicine and talking of life .
 ' He has begun to clutch at himself , ' replied Mary Nikolavna .
 And Levin noticed that all day long the sick man really kept catching at himself as if wishing to pull something off .
 FROM THE MOMENT THAT KARENIN UNDERSTOOD from his conversations with Betsy and Oblonsky that all that was asked of him was that he should leave his wife in peace and not trouble her with his presence and that his wife herself wished this , he felt so lost that he could decide nothing for himself , did not know what he now wanted , and having placed himself in the hands of those who with so much pleasure busied themselves with his affairs , he consented to everything .
 Without rendering account to himself why he did it , during those two days he tried with all his might to appear calm and even indifferent .
 He felt that he could not divert from himself people 's hatred , because that hatred was caused not by his badness ( had it been so he might have tried to be better ) but by his disgraceful and repulsive misery .
 Slyudin was an unaffected , intelligent , kindly and moral man , who , Karenin felt , had a personal liking for himself ; but their five years ' official activity together had built a barrier in the way of any intimate talk between them .
 I am no longer a man ! ' said Karenin , releasing her hand but continuing to gaze into her tearful eyes . ' My position is terrible because I can not find support anywhere , can not find it even in myself . '
 Do not thank me . I am not doing it of myself ... '
 ' But , my dear friend , do not give way to that feeling you were speaking about - of being ashamed of that which is the utmost height of Christianity ! `` He that humbleth himself shall be exalted , '' and you must not thank me ! - You must thank Him , and ask Him for help .
 She really took upon herself the care of arranging and managing Karenin 's household , but she had not exaggerated when she said she was not good at practical matters .
 Analysing that feeling , and comparing it with her previous loves , she saw clearly that she would not have been in love with Komisarov had he not saved the Tsar 's life , nor with Ristich-Kudzhitsky but for the Slavonic question ; but that she loved Karenin for himself , for his lofty , misunderstood soul , for the high-pitched tone of his voice with the long-drawn inflections which she thought charming , for his weary eyes , for his character , and for his soft hands with their swollen veins .
 Forgive me for reminding you of myself .
 I address myself to you , instead of to Alexis Alexandrovich , only because I do not wish to give pain to that high-minded man by reminding him of myself .
 That cessation was an accomplished fact , clearly visible to every one , though Karenin himself had not yet realized that his career was at an end .
 Do I not see how you are suffering , how this has reopened all your wounds ! Of course as usual you are not thinking of yourself .
 Renewed pain for yourself , and pain for the child !
 This letter achieved the secret purpose which the Countess Lydia Ivanovna hid even from herself . It wounded Anna to the depths of her soul .
 ' Serezha ! ' said his tutor , a Slav , stopping in the doorway that led to the inner rooms , ' take it off yourself . '
 He imagined his father suddenly receiving the Orders of Vladimir and Saint Andrew , and how much kinder in consequence he would be to-day at lesson-time , and how he himself when he grew up would receive all the Orders , and that they would invent one higher than the Saint Andrew .
 He was aware that the teacher himself did not believe what he was saying ; he felt that by the tone in which the words were uttered . ' But why have they all agreed to speak in the same way about the dullest and most useless things ?
 He did not believe that people he loved could die , nor above all that he himself would die .
 I can imagine how dreadful our Petersburg must appear to you after your delightful journey ; I can picture to myself your honeymoon in Rome .
 ' That coldness , that pretence of feeling ! ' she said to herself . ' They want to wound me and torture the child , and shall I submit to them ?
 He shook his head , sighed , and closed the door again . ' I will be another ten minutes , ' he said to himself , coughing and wiping away his tears .
 You 'd better look after yourself and how to fleece the master of fur coats ! '
 ' Now , judge for yourself , Mary Efimovna , ' he said to her .
 On returning to her lonely suite in the hotel she could not for a long time understand why she was there . ' Yes , it is all ended and I am alone again , ' she said to herself ; and without taking off her bonnet she sat down in an easy-chair by the fireplace .
 ' Come and dine with me , ' said Anna resolutely , as if vexed with herself for her embarrassment , yet blushing as she always did when she revealed her position to a fresh person . ' The dinners here are not good , but at any rate you will see one another .
 He went down frowning to his rooms , and taking a seat beside Yashvin , who sat with his long legs stretched out on a chair drinking brandy and seltzer , ordered the same for himself .
 Tushkevich , Yashvin , the Princess Barbara ... ' he pictured them to himself . ' And what of me ?
 All these were relations and friends of Kitty 's , and , though Levin liked them , he regretted his own - the Levin - world and order of things , which was being submerged by this influx of ' the Shcherbatsky element , ' as he put it to himself .
 ' I envy him because he is better than I am , ' replied he , smiling . ' He does not live for himself .
 Her disbelief in his dissatisfaction with himself was pleasant , and unconsciously he challenged her to give reasons for her disbelief .
 ' I am happy , but dissatisfied with myself ... ' he answered .
 He recalled the women and girls he had known , but try as he would he could not recall one who united in herself to such a degree all , literally all , the qualities which he , thinking the matter over in cold blood , would desire in a wife .
 This was what Koznyshev said to himself when he was already within ten steps of Varenka .
 He repeated to himself the words with which he had intended to propose ; but instead of those words some unexpected thought caused him to say :
 ' And I know why , ' continued the Princess . ' He says young married folk should be left to themselves for a while . '
 ' It 's very nice at their place , ' Vasenka was saying , talking of Vronsky and Anna . ' Of course I do not take it upon myself to judge , but in their house one feels oneself to be in a family . '
 ' Yes , I am going , ' he answered in an unnatural voice that was disagreeable to himself .
 In Levin 's eyes Kitty was to blame for having laid herself open to such behaviour , and still more to blame for so awkwardly showing that it displeased her .
 In the depth of her soul she was conscious that there had been something just at the moment when Veslovsky had followed her to the other end of the table , but she dared not own this even to herself , much less make up her mind to tell him and so increase his pain .
 At length the door opened noisily and out bounded , spinning round and round in the air , Krak , Oblonsky 's yellow spotted pointer , followed by Oblonsky himself with a gun in his hand and a cigar in his mouth . ' Quiet , quiet , Krak ! ' he said affectionately to the dog , which was throwing its paws up against his stomach and chest and getting them entangled in his game-bag .
 Levin had run back to ask his wife once more whether she had forgiven him his foolishness of the previous day , and also to entreat her ' for heaven 's sake ' to take care of herself ; and especially to keep further away from the children who at any moment might collide with her .
 So the coachman rode back on the side-horse and Levin drove the other two himself .
 ' What the devil brings him here ? ' muttered Levin to himself , turning back to the vehicle . ' Why did you leave the road ? ' he asked drily , and calling the coachman , set to work to get the horses out .
 ' Do you know , you will bring trouble on yourself , ' said Oblonsky , having found his cap and getting up .
 ' Can it be only done in a negative sense ? ' Levin repeated to himself .
 He was certainly a good-natured fellow , and Levin felt sorry for him and ashamed of himself as a host when he noticed the shyness of Vasenka 's look .
 Is Papa , who has kept scarcely anything for himself , to help us ? ...
 She is happy , she is making another happy and is not dragged down as I am , but she is no doubt as fresh , clever , and frank as ever , ' she thought ; and a roguish smile puckered her lips , chiefly because while thinking of Anna 's romance she invented an almost similar romance for herself with an imaginary , collective man who was in love with her .
 Here they are themselves ! ' cried the man , pointing to four persons on horseback and two in a char-a-banc coming along the road .
 ANNA WAS LOOKING AT DOLLY 'S THIN WAN FACE with its dust-filled wrinkles , and wishing to tell her just what she thought : that Dolly looked thinner and worse . But remembering that her own looks had improved and that Dolly 's eyes had told her so , she sighed and began talking about herself .
 ' Tell me about yourselves . I meet Steve in passing , but he ca n't tell me about the children .
 I do n't want to prove anything : simply I wish to live , not hurting anyone but myself .
 The Count goes into everything himself .
 Only by the fact that a nice woman would not have accepted a post in such an irregular household as Anna 's could Dolly explain to herself how Anna , with her knowledge of character , could have engaged for her little girl such an unpleasant and fast Englishwoman .
 But actually seeing her among these people so alien to herself , with their fashionable tone which was quite new to her , Dolly felt ill at ease .
 As with the maid she felt not exactly ashamed but uncomfortable about the patches , so with him she felt not exactly ashamed but ill-at-ease about herself .
 I do not speak of myself , though it 's very hard on me , very hard , ' he said with a look as if he were menacing some one for making it so hard on him . ' And so , Princess , I shamelessly cling to you as an anchor of salvation !
 Veslovsky offered his arm to the Princess Barbara before Tushkevich could do so , so that the latter , the steward , and the doctor went in by themselves .
 Vasenka Veslovsky , her husband , and even Sviyazhsky and many others whom she knew , never thought about these things , and readily believed , what every decent host wishes his guests to feel , that all that is so well arranged at his house has cost him no trouble but has come about of itself .
 Dolly , however , knew that not even a milk pudding for the children 's lunch comes of itself , and that therefore so complicated and splendid an organization must have needed some one 's careful attention ; and from the way Vronsky surveyed the table , gave a sign with his head to the butler , and asked her whether she would take fish-broth or soup , she concluded that it had all been done by , and depended on , the master 's care .
 Reference was made to Tushkevich and Veslovsky having been for a row by themselves , and Tushkevich began to tell about the last boat races at the Petersburg Yacht Club .
 Dolly noticed that Anna did not like the playful tone that had arisen between herself and Veslovsky , yet could not help falling in with it .
 All that day she felt as if she were acting in a theatre with better actors than herself , and that her bad performance was spoiling the whole affair .
 ' But tell me about yourself . I have much to talk to you about and I have been talking with ...
 ' Well , yes , of course , ' said Dolly , listening to the very arguments which she had put to herself but not finding them so convincing as before .
 These were the very arguments Dolly had put to herself , but now she listened without understanding them . ' How can one be guilty toward beings who do n't exist ? ' thought she .
 Understand that I love equally , I think , and both more than myself - two beings : Serezha and Alexis . '
 There she not only helped , but arranged and planned many things herself .
 Nevertheless , her chief preoccupation was still herself - herself in so far as Vronsky held her dear and in so far as she could compensate him for all he had given up .
 He knew her capacity for withdrawing into herself , and knew that she only did it when she had come to some resolution in her own mind without telling him of her plans .
 To free himself from this feeling he went , without waiting to hear the end of the discussion , into the refreshment room , where there was no one except the waiters at the buffet .
 Now I work harder than I did in the Service , and like yourself I clear about five per cent . , and that only with luck .
 All this was untimely and foolish , and Levin himself was conscious of it even while he spoke .
 Anna now acknowledged to herself that he was weary of her and would regret giving up his freedom to return to her ; yet in spite of this she was glad that he would come .
 It was no longer entirely part of herself , but now and then lived its own independent life .
 But she understood him not from without but from within and saw that in town he was not himself ; she could not otherwise define his condition .
 She was pleased with herself .
 Her truthful eyes told Levin that she was satisfied with herself , and in spite of her blushes he grew calm at once and began questioning her , which was just what she wanted .
 With him it was a sign of great displeasure , not with her but with himself .
 Though he had to admit that in the Eastern and greater part of Russia rents were still nil , that wages - for nine-tenths of the eighty millions of the Russian population - represented only sustenance for themselves , and that capital did not yet exist except in the form of most primitive tools yet he regarded every labourer merely from that one point of view , though on many points he disagreed with the economists and had his own theory of wages , which he explained to Levin .
 Levin attributed this to his own worth , not knowing that Metrov , who had exhausted the matter with all his intimates , was particularly pleased to speak about it to any fresh person , and , in general , willingly spoke to everybody about the subject with which he was occupied and which was not yet clear to himself .
 ' I do n't think so , ' said Levin with a smile , feeling , as usual , touched by the other 's low opinion of himself , which was not in the least affected from desire to appear , or even to be , modest , but was quite sincere .
 And so it is with ourselves : we keep coming and coming to the club until we turn into shlyupiks . There !
 He was glad the hostility between Vronsky and himself was ended , and the impression of tranquillity , decorum , and pleasure did not leave him .
 Well , you see , any other woman in her position might fail to find resources in herself .
 [ I never could succeed with that . ] There are so many women who have created for themselves a social position in that way .
 And with a sudden frown ( Levin understood that she was frowning at herself for having spoken about herself ) she changed the subject . ' I have heard it said of you , ' said she to Levin , ' that you are a bad citizen , and I have defended you as best I could . '
 I restrain myself , wait , invent occupations for myself , - the English family , writing , reading , but all that is only deception , it is all a kind of morphia .
 For you it is a question whether you will conquer me , and for me ... ' Again she felt sorry for herself and nearly burst into tears .
 If you knew how near I am to a catastrophe at such moments ... how afraid I am ! Afraid of myself ! '
 He jumped up hastily , hardly aware of himself and without taking his eyes off her , put on his dressing-gown and stood still , gazing at her .
 How vile and despicable he appeared to himself before her as she now was , when he recollected the grief he had caused her yesterday !
 This attention to his glasses and indifference to what was taking place at the Levins ' astonished Levin at first , but he immediately recollected himself and realized that no one knew or was bound to know his feelings , and that it was therefore all the more necessary to act calmly , deliberately , and firmly in order to break through this wall of indifference and to attain his aim . ' Do not hurry and do not omit anything , ' he said to himself , conscious of an increasing uplift of his physical powers and of his attention to all that lay before him .
 Having learnt that the doctor was not up yet , Levin , out of the many plans that occurred to him , decided on the following : Kuzma should go with a note to another doctor , while he himself would go to the chemist for the opium ; and if the doctor was not up when he returned he would bribe the footman - or if that was impossible , he would enter by force and wake the doctor at all costs .
 He did it with zeal , believing that it was necessary for her sake , and only later discovered that he had been preparing a sleeping-place for himself .
 ' Lord , pardon and help us ! ' he kept repeating incessantly to himself , appealing to God , in spite of a long period of apparently complete estrangement , just as trustingly and simply as in the days of childhood and early youth .
 Quite beside himself , he rushed into her room .
 And meanwhile at the foot of the bed , like a flame above a lamp , flickered in Mary Vlasevna 's skilful hands the life of a human being who had never before existed : a human being who , with the same right and the same importance to himself , would live and would procreate others like himself .
 This is an abuse important in itself , which has a bad effect on the State service .
 During those two hours in Bolgarinov 's waiting-room he had walked about boldly , smoothing his whiskers , entering into conversation with other applicants , inventing a joke to tell , of how he had waited at the Jew 's , carefully concealing his feelings from others and even from himself .
 Understand me ! ' said Oblonsky , now touching Karenin 's hand , as if he were sure that the contact would soften his brother-in-law . ' All I say is that her position is tormenting , and could be made easier by you , without any detriment to yourself .
 ' She has done what everybody , except myself , does secretly , and she would not deceive , and has acted splendidly .
 ' Well , broadly speaking , I can picture to myself the change .
 At the French Theatre , where he arrived in time for the last act , and afterwards at the Tartar Restaurant , where he had some champagne , Oblonsky was able to some extent to breathe again in an atmosphere congenial to him , but nevertheless he was not at all himself that evening .
 The cruelty with which he annihilated the world which she had so painfully constructed for herself to be able to endure her hard life , the injustice of his accusation that she was dissembling and unnatural , roused her indignation .
 To-day he had been away from home all day , and she had felt so lonely , and it was so painful to feel herself at discord with him , that she wished to forget it all , to forgive and make it up with him . Wishing even to blame herself and to justify him , she said to herself :
 Then , realizing that in her attempt to quiet herself she had again completed the circle she had already gone round so often , and had returned to her former cause of irritation , she was horror-struck at herself .
 ' Is it possible that I ca n't ... ? Is it possible that I ca n't take it on myself ? ' she wondered , and began again from the beginning .
 I need calm and confidence ; and I will take the blame on myself . Yes , now , as soon as he comes back , I will tell him I was to blame , though in fact I was not , and we will go away ! '
 ' He hates me , that is clear , ' thought she , and silently , without looking round and with faltering steps , she left the room . ' He loves another woman , that is clearer still , ' she said to herself as she entered her own room .
 Thoughts of where she would now go : to the aunt who had brought her up , to Dolly , or simply abroad by herself ; of what he was now doing , alone in the study ; of whether this quarrel was final or whether a reconciliation was still possible ; of what all her former Petersburg acquaintances would say of her now ; how Karenin would regard it ; and many other thoughts about what would happen now after the rupture , passed through her mind , but she did not give herself up entirely to these thoughts .
 If I die he too will repent , will pity me , will love me and will suffer on my account ! ' With a fixed smile of self-pity on her lips she sat in the chair , taking off and putting on the rings on her left hand , and vividly picturing to herself from various points of view his feelings after she was dead .
 Have I not often before despaired needlessly ? ' she said to herself immediately after .
 And death , as the sole means of reviving love for herself in his heart , of punishing him , and of gaining the victory in that contest which an evil spirit in her heart was waging against him , presented itself clearly and vividly to her .
 Without waking him she returned to her room , and after a second dose of opium toward morning she fell into a heavy but troubled sleep , without ever ceasing to be conscious of herself .
 IS IT FINISHED ? ' said Anna to herself as she stood by the window ; and in answer to that question , the impressions left by the darkness when her candle went out and by the terrible dream , merging into one , filled her heart with icy horror .
 No , I 'll come back myself . '
 ' But I must not think , I must do something , go away , get out of this house at any rate , ' she said to herself , listening with horror to the terrible beating of her heart , and she hurriedly went out and got into the calche .
 I ca n't ! ' she said to herself , and wished to cry .
 He may have missed the train and be back already . Wanting to humiliate yourself again ! ' she said to herself .
 I was myself coming to see you , ' said Dolly . ' I had a letter from Steve to-day . '
 There is some one satisfied with himself ? ' she thought , seeing a fat ruddy man who was driving past in the opposite direction , and who , taking her for an acquaintance , lifted his shiny hat above his bald and shiny head , but then discovered that he was mistaken : ' He thought he knew me .
 ' Well , in that case I know what I must do , ' said she to herself , and conscious of a vague sense of wrath and a desire for vengeance rising within her , she ran upstairs . ' I shall go to him myself .
 Again I understand it all , ' Anna said to herself as soon as the carriage started and , rocking slightly , rattled over the stones ; and again different impressions succeeded one another in her brain .
 ' And the dog you have with you wo n't help you ! You ca n't escape from yourselves . '
 The zest is gone ! ' she said to herself in English . ' That man wants to astonish everybody and is very well satisfied with himself , ' she thought , glancing at a rosy-faced shop-assistant who was riding a hired horse .
 Well , supposing I picture to myself what I want in order to be happy ?
 Remembering Karenin , she pictured him to herself with extraordinary vividness , as if he stood before her , with his mild , dull , lifeless eyes , the blue veins of his white hands , his intonations , his cracking fingers , and remembering the feeling that had once existed between them and which had also been called love , she shuddered with revulsion . ' Well , I get divorced and become Vronsky 's wife !
 And between Vronsky and myself what new feeling can I invent ?
 And glancing at the red-cheeked husband and his thin wife , she saw that the sickly wife considered herself misunderstood , and that the husband deceived her and encouraged her in her opinion of herself .
 ' Yes , I expected it ! ' she said to herself with a malicious smile .
 She spoke softly , because the rapid beating of her heart impeded her breathing . ' No , I will not let you torture me , ' she thought , addressing her threat not to him nor to herself but to that which forced her to suffer , and she walked along the platform , past the station buildings .
 ' There ! ' she said to herself , looking at the shadow of the truck on the mingled sand and coal dust which covered the sleepers . ' There , into the very middle , and I shall punish him and escape from everybody and from myself ! '
 All this was put with so much wit that Koznyshev himself would not have been averse to wielding it ; and that was what was dreadful .
 He admitted that the papers published much that was unnecessary and exaggerated with the sole aim of drawing attention to themselves , each outcrying the other .
 He was a modest , quiet man , who evidently deferred to the knowledge of the retired Guardsman and to the heroic self-sacrifice of the merchant and did not talk at all about himself .
 We had no idea that she was herself there at the station .
 When I ran to his room he was beside himself - it was terrible to see him .
 ' There is no one whom it would be less unpleasant for me to meet than yourself , ' returned Vronsky . ' Excuse me .
 The Volunteers are being very much attacked and a man like yourself will raise them in public opinion . '
 ' Are n't you ashamed of yourself for not letting us know ? ' she said , holding out her hand to him and offering her forehead for a kiss .
 It was not a mere guess - the bond between herself and the baby had not yet been severed - and she knew surely by the flow of milk within herself that he was wanting food .
 ' Well , wait till he wakes up and you will see for yourself .
 Everything for others , nothing for himself !
 He was painfully out of harmony with himself and strained all his spiritual powers to escape from this condition .
 Their thoughts seemed to him fruitful when he read , or was himself devising refutations of other teachings , the materialistic in particular ; but as soon as he began reading , or himself devised , solutions to life 's problems , the same thing occurred every time .
 Following long definitions of vague words such as spirit , will , freedom , substance , and deliberately entering the verbal trap set for him by the philosophers , or by himself , he seemed to begin to understand something .
 All that spring he was not himself and experienced terrible moments .
 Yet I can not know that and therefore I ca n't live , ' he said to himself .
 These matters interested him , not because he justified them to himself by any general theories as he had done previously ; on the contrary , being now on the one hand disenchanted by the ill-success of his former occupations for the general welfare , and on the other hand too much occupied with his own thoughts and by the mass of affairs that overwhelmed him from all sides , he quite abandoned all calculation of public utility , and these matters interested him only because it seemed to him that he had to do what he was doing , and could not act otherwise .
 But now since his marriage , when he began to confine himself more and more to living for himself , though he no longer felt any joy at the thought of his activity , he felt confident that his work was necessary , saw that it progressed far better than formerly , and that it was always growing more and more .
 To do this he must not lease the land , but must farm it himself , keep cattle , manure the fields , and plant woods .
 He 'll lend , and sometimes let a man off , and so run short himself .
 Having then for the first time clearly understood that before every man , and before himself , there lay only suffering , death , and eternal oblivion , he had concluded that to live under such conditions was impossible ; that one must either explain life to oneself so that it does not seem to be an evil mockery by some sort of devil , or one must shoot oneself .
 Nothing of that which constitutes the chief joys of my life would have existed for me . ' And although he made the greatest efforts of imagination , he could not picture to himself the bestial creature he would have been , had he not known what he was living for .
 ' Ah yes ! Pride ! ' he said to himself , turning over face downwards and beginning to tie blades of grass into knots , trying not to break them .
 Left by themselves , the children had started cooking raspberries over a candle , and pouring jets of milk into their mouths .
 ' Supposing now that the children were left alone to procure or make cups for themselves and to milk the cows and so on .
 The Church ? ' Levin repeated to himself .
 ' My theory is this : On the one hand war is such a bestial , cruel and terrible affair , that no single man - not to speak of a Christian - can take on himself personally the responsibility for beginning a war . It can only be done by a Government , which is summoned to it and is brought to it inevitably .
 ' The editors would be fine ! ' remarked Katavasov , laughing loudly , and picturing to himself the editors of his acquaintance in that chosen legion .
 He could not agree with this , because he neither saw the expression of those thoughts in the people among whom he lived , nor did he find any such thoughts in himself ( and he could not consider himself as other than one of those who constituted the Russian people ) . Above all , he could not agree because he , together with the people , did not know and could not know wherein lay the general welfare , but knew definitely that the attainment of this welfare was only possible by a strict fulfilment of the law of goodness which is revealed to every man , and therefore could not desire or preach war for any kind of general aims .
 All labours , all humiliations , all sacrifices we take upon ourselves ; but we will not judge or decide ! ' But the people now , according to his brother , were renouncing that exemption they had purchased at so high a price .
 ' Well , are n't you ashamed of yourself ?
 He went through the verandah and looked at two stars that had appeared on the already darkening sky , and suddenly he remembered : ' Yes , as I looked at the sky I thought that the vault I see is not a delusion , but then there was something I did not think out , something I hid from myself , ' he thought . ' But whatever it was , it can not have been a refutation .
 Just as he was entering the nursery he remembered what it was he had hidden from himself .
 It seemed to him that he had a reply to that question ; but he had no time to express it to himself before he entered the nursery .
 ' Yes , the one evident , indubitable manifestation of the Deity is the law of goodness disclosed to men by revelation , which I feel within myself and in the confession of which I do not so much unite myself as I am united , whether I will or not , with other people in one community of believers which is called the Church . But the Jews , Mahomedans , Confucians , Buddhists - what of them ? ' he questioned , putting to himself the query that seemed to him dangerous .
 ' Is it possible that those hundreds of millions of people are deprived of that highest blessing , without which life has no meaning ? ' he pondered , but he immediately corrected himself . ' But what am I asking about ? ' he said to himself .
 ' Do I not know that it is not the stars that are moving ? ' he asked himself , looking at a bright planet that had already shifted its position by the top branch of a birch tree . ' But I , watching the movement of the stars , can not picture to myself the rotation of the earth and I am right in saying that the stars move .
 Although my book is intended mainly for the entertainment of boys and girls , I hope it will not be shunned by men and women on that account , for part of my plan has been to try to pleasantly remind adults of what they once were themselves , and of how they felt and thought and talked , and what queer enterprises they sometimes engaged in . THE AUTHOR .
 A stranger was before him -- a boy a shade larger than himself .
 `` Go away yourself ! ''
 Tom said to himself that it was not such a hollow world , after all .
 She went out to see for herself ; and she would have been content to find twenty per cent. of Tom 's statement true . When she found the entire fence white-washed , and not only whitewashed but elaborately coated and recoated , and even a streak added to the ground , her astonishment was almost unspeakable .
 She was so overcome by the splendor of his achievement that she took him into the closet and selected a choice apple and delivered it to him , along with an improving lecture upon the added value and flavor a treat took to itself when it came without sin through virtuous effort .
 A certain Amy Lawrence vanished out of his heart and left not even a memory of herself behind .
 He said to himself that he would not speak a word , even when his aunt came in , but would sit perfectly still till she asked who did the mischief ; and then he would tell , and there would be nothing so good in the world as to see that pet model `` catch it . ''
 He said to himself , `` Now it 's coming ! ''
 Mr. Walters was very earnest of mien , and very sincere and honest at heart ; and he held sacred things and places in such reverence , and so separated them from worldly matters , that unconsciously to himself his Sunday-school voice had acquired a peculiar intonation which was wholly absent on week-days .
 And you never can be sorry for the trouble you took to learn them ; for knowledge is worth more than anything there is in the world ; it 's what makes great men and good men ; you 'll be a great man and a good man yourself , some day , Thomas , and then you 'll look back and say , It 's all owing to the precious Sunday-school privileges of my boyhood -- it 's all owing to my dear teachers that taught me to learn -- it 's all owing to the good superintendent , who encouraged me , and watched over me , and gave me a beautiful Bible -- a splendid elegant Bible -- to keep and have it all for my own , always -- it 's all owing to right bringing up !
 He said to himself , it is not possible that the boy can answer the simplest question -- why _ did _ the Judge ask him ?
 But the pathos , the lesson , the moral of the great spectacle were lost upon the boy ; he only thought of the conspicuousness of the principal character before the on-looking nations ; his face lit with the thought , and he said to himself that he wished he could be that child , if it was a tame lion .
 Tom Sawyer went home quite cheerful , thinking to himself that there was some satisfaction about divine service when there was a bit of variety in it .
 `` Hello yourself , and see how you like it . ''
 You got to go all by yourself , to the middle of the woods , where you know there 's a spunk-water stump , and just as it 's midnight you back up against the stump and jam your hand in and say :
 In a little while the two met at the bottom of the lane , and when they reached the school they had it all to themselves .
 It did not occur to him that he had tried it several times before , himself , but could never find the hiding-places afterward .
 At last he was satisfied that time had ceased and eternity begun ; he began to doze , in spite of himself ; the clock chimed eleven , but he did not hear it .
 All at once the doctor flung himself free , seized the heavy headboard of Williams ' grave and felled Potter to the earth with it -- and in the same instant the half-breed saw his chance and drove the knife to the hilt in the young man 's breast .
 He muttered : `` If he 's as much stunned with the lick and fuddled with the rum as he had the look of being , he wo n't think of the knife till he 's gone so far he 'll be afraid to come back after it to such a place by himself -- chicken-heart ! ''
 `` That 's just what I was thinking to myself , Huck . ''
 If Sid really managed to make anything out of Tom 's disjointed mutterings , he kept it to himself .
 When something fresh in this line came out she was in a fever , right away , to try it ; not on herself , for she was never ailing , but on anybody else that came handy .
 Because if he 'd had one she 'd a burnt him out herself !
 He carried his exploits to her immediate vicinity ; came war-whooping around , snatched a boy 's cap , hurled it to the roof of the schoolhouse , broke through a group of boys , tumbling them in every direction , and fell sprawling , himself , under Becky 's nose , almost upsetting her -- and she turned , with her nose in the air , and he heard her say : `` Mf ! some people think they 're mighty smart -- always showing off ! ''
 But none of the pirates smoked or `` chewed '' but himself .
 You see a pirate do n't have to do _ anything _ , Joe , when he 's ashore , but a hermit _ he _ has to be praying considerable , and then he do n't have any fun , anyway , all by himself that way . "
 The marvel of Nature shaking off sleep and going to work unfolded itself to the musing boy .
 Now a procession of ants appeared , from nowhere in particular , and went about their labors ; one struggled manfully by with a dead spider five times as big as itself in its arms , and lugged it straight up a tree-trunk .
 `` Well , that 's funny , '' said Tom . " But maybe they say it to themselves .
 He lay and `` breathed '' himself for a time , and then crept to where he could almost touch his aunt 's foot .
 `` It was just so with my Joe -- always full of his devilment , and up to every kind of mischief , but he was just as unselfish and kind as he could be -- and laws bless me , to think I went and whipped him for taking that cream , never once recollecting that I throwed it out myself because it was sour , and I never to see him again in this world , never , never , never , poor abused boy ! ''
 Tom was snuffling , now , himself -- and more in pity of himself than anybody else .
 He began to have a nobler opinion of himself than ever before .
 Tom found himself writing `` BECKY '' in the sand with his big toe ; he scratched it out , and was angry with himself for his weakness .
 Presently she stopped , and said to herself :
 Then there was a dispute about who saw the dead boys last in life , and many claimed that dismal distinction , and offered evidences , more or less tampered with by the witness ; and when it was ultimately decided who _ did _ see the departed last , and exchanged the last words with them , the lucky parties took upon themselves a sort of sacred importance , and were gaped at and envied by all the rest .
 Tom got more cuffs and kisses that day -- according to Aunt Polly 's varying moods -- than he had earned before in a year ; and he hardly knew which expressed the most gratefulness to God and affection for himself .
 Smaller boys than himself flocked at his heels , as proud to be seen with him , and tolerated by him , as if he had been the drummer at the head of a procession or the elephant leading a menagerie into town .
 He wished there was some way to get that boy into trouble without much risk to himself .
 Tom , I do n't know what is to become of a boy that will act like that . It makes me feel so bad to think you could let me go to Sereny Harper and make such a fool of myself and never say a word . "
 Then she stopped , with it in her hand , and said to herself :
 The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face : " I 'll thank you to keep yourself _ to _ yourself , Mr. Thomas Sawyer .
 Poor girl , she did not know how fast she was nearing trouble herself .
 " You ought to be ashamed of yourself , Tom Sawyer ; you know you 're going to tell on me , and oh , what shall I do , what shall I do !
 Presently he said to himself :
 When the worst came to the worst , she had an impulse to get up and tell on Alfred Temple , but she made an effort and forced herself to keep still -- because , said she to herself , " he 'll tell about me tearing the picture sure .
 Tom took his whipping and went back to his seat not at all broken-hearted , for he thought it was possible that he had unknowingly upset the ink on the spelling-book himself , in some skylarking bout -- he had denied it for form 's sake and because it was custom , and had stuck to the denial from principle .
 The mayor of the village , in delivering the prize to the author of it , made a warm speech in which he said that it was by far the most `` eloquent '' thing he had ever listened to , and that Daniel Webster himself might well be proud of it .
 It might have seemed to him a waste of pomp and ammunition to kill a bug with a battery of artillery , but there seemed nothing incongruous about the getting up such an expensive thunderstorm as this to knock the turf from under an insect like himself .
 Often I says to myself , says I , ' I used to mend all the boys ' kites and things , and show ' em where the good fishin ' places was , and befriend ' em what I could , and now they 've all forgot old Muff when he 's in trouble ; but Tom do n't , and Huck do n't -- _ they _ do n't forget him , says I , ' and I do n't forget them . '
 Each boy said to himself : `` There 's the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that 's been about town once or twice lately -- never saw t 'other man before . ''
 He subtracted from it twenty or thirty dollars for himself and as much for Injun Joe , and passed the bag to the latter , who was on his knees in the corner , now , digging with his bowie-knife .
 The boys above were as excited as themselves , and as delighted .
 Injun Joe took the pick , looked it over critically , shook his head , muttered something to himself , and then began to use it .
 `` Hello , yourself . ''
 `` Lordy , I do n't want to foller him by myself ! ''
 So communing with himself , Huck stepped out and glided along behind the men , cat-like , with bare feet , allowing them to keep just far enough ahead not to be invisible .
 " Keep your opinion to yourself !
 The widow said to herself : " There -- he 's asleep , poor wreck .
 He said to himself that if he had strength enough to get back to the spring he would stay there , and nothing should tempt him to run the risk of meeting Injun Joe again .
 If he had been Satan himself there would have been plenty of weaklings ready to scribble their names to a pardon-petition , and drip a tear on it from their permanently impaired and leaky water-works .
 I 'll float the skiff down there , and I 'll pull it back again all by myself .
 " Lookyhere , Huck , what fools we 're making of ourselves !
