 `` It is well I drew the curtain , '' thought I ; and I wished fervently he might not discover my hiding-place : nor would John Reed have found it out himself ; he was not quick either of vision or conception ; but Eliza just put her head in at the door , and said at once --
 Say your prayers , Miss Eyre , when you are by yourself ; for if you do n't repent , something bad might be permitted to come down the chimney and fetch you away . "
 The house-maid alone came here on Saturdays , to wipe from the mirrors and the furniture a week 's quiet dust : and Mrs. Reed herself , at far intervals , visited it to review the contents of a certain secret drawer in the wardrobe , where were stored divers parchments , her jewel-casket , and a miniature of her deceased husband ; and in those last words lies the secret of the red-room -- the spell which kept it so lonely in spite of its grandeur .
 Turning from Bessie ( though her presence was far less obnoxious to me than that of Abbot , for instance , would have been ) , I scrutinised the face of the gentleman : I knew him ; it was Mr. Lloyd , an apothecary , sometimes called in by Mrs. Reed when the servants were ailing : for herself and the children she employed a physician .
 This state of things should have been to me a paradise of peace , accustomed as I was to a life of ceaseless reprimand and thankless fagging ; but , in fact , my racked nerves were now in such a state that no calm could soothe , and no pleasure excite them agreeably .
 Mrs. Reed surveyed me at times with a severe eye , but seldom addressed me : since my illness , she had drawn a more marked line of separation than ever between me and her own children ; appointing me a small closet to sleep in by myself , condemning me to take my meals alone , and pass all my time in the nursery , while my cousins were constantly in the drawing-room .
 It is far better to endure patiently a smart which nobody feels but yourself , than to commit a hasty action whose evil consequences will extend to all connected with you ; and besides , the Bible bids us return good for evil . "
 The other teachers , poor things , were generally themselves too much dejected to attempt the task of cheering others .
 There are many others who have no friends , who must look about for themselves and be their own helpers ; and what is their resource ? "
 It would be difficult to say : I could not then distinctly say it to myself ; yet I had a reason , and a logical , natural reason too .
 Mr. Rochester asked me if I would like to go and live with him in England , and I said yes ; for I knew Mr. Rochester before I knew Madame Frederic , and he was always kind to me and gave me pretty dresses and toys : but you see he has not kept his word , for he has brought me to England , and now he is gone back again himself , and I never see him . "
 Anybody may blame me who likes , when I add further , that , now and then , when I took a walk by myself in the grounds ; when I went down to the gates and looked through them along the road ; or when , while Adele played with her nurse , and Mrs. Fairfax made jellies in the storeroom , I climbed the three staircases , raised the trap-door of the attic , and having reached the leads , looked out afar over sequestered field and hill , and along dim sky-line -- that then I longed for a power of vision which might overpass that limit ; which might reach the busy world , towns , regions full of life I had heard of but never seen -- that then I desired more of practical experience than I possessed ; more of intercourse with my kind , of acquaintance with variety of character , than was here within my reach .
 `` I should think you ought to be at home yourself , '' said he , `` if you have a home in this neighbourhood : where do you come from ? ''
 `` I can not commission you to fetch help , '' he said ; `` but you may help me a little yourself , if you will be so kind . ''
 I brushed Adele 's hair and made her neat , and having ascertained that I was myself in my usual Quaker trim , where there was nothing to retouch -- all being too close and plain , braided locks included , to admit of disarrangement -- we descended , Adele wondering whether the _ petit coffre _ was at length come ; for , owing to some mistake , its arrival had hitherto been delayed .
 I leave both the choice of subject and the manner of treating it entirely to yourself . "
 God wot I need not be too severe about others ; I have a past existence , a series of deeds , a colour of life to contemplate within my own breast , which might well call my sneers and censures from my neighbours to myself .
 As he had said , there was probably nothing at all extraordinary in the substance of the narrative itself : a wealthy Englishman 's passion for a French dancer , and her treachery to him , were every-day matters enough , no doubt , in society ; but there was something decidedly strange in the paroxysm of emotion which had suddenly seized him when he was in the act of expressing the present contentment of his mood , and his newly revived pleasure in the old hall and its environs .
 `` Was that Grace Poole ? and is she possessed with a devil ? '' thought I. Impossible now to remain longer by myself : I must go to Mrs. Fairfax .
 For herself , she did nothing but caper about in the front chambers , jump on and off the bedsteads , and lie on the mattresses and piled-up bolsters and pillows before the enormous fires roaring in the chimneys .
 Only one hour in the twenty-four did she pass with her fellow-servants below ; all the rest of her time was spent in some low-ceiled , oaken chamber of the second storey : there she sat and sewed -- and probably laughed drearily to herself , -- as companionless as a prisoner in his dungeon .
 For myself , I had no need to make any change ; I should not be called upon to quit my sanctum of the schoolroom ; for a sanctum it was now become to me , -- `` a very pleasant refuge in time of trouble . ''
 I must show her into a room by herself , and then those who wish to consult her must go to her one by one . "
 " It is not my mission to listen to her before the vulgar herd either : I mean to have her all to myself .
 `` She says , sir , that she 'll have no gentlemen ; they need not trouble themselves to come near her ; nor , '' he added , with difficulty suppressing a titter , `` any ladies either , except the young , and single . ''
 An extinguished candle stood on the table ; she was bending over the fire , and seemed reading in a little black book , like a prayer-book , by the light of the blaze : she muttered the words to herself , as most old women do , while she read ; she did not desist immediately on my entrance : it appeared she wished to finish a paragraph .
 I said this rather to myself than to the gipsy , whose strange talk , voice , manner , had by this time wrapped me in a kind of dream .
 I 'll fetch a surgeon for you now , myself : you 'll be able to be removed by morning , I hope .
 According as the shifting obscurity and flickering gleam hovered here or glanced there , it was now the bearded physician , Luke , that bent his brow ; now St. John 's long hair that waved ; and anon the devilish face of Judas , that grew out of the panel , and seemed gathering life and threatening a revelation of the arch-traitor -- of Satan himself -- in his subordinate 's form .
 `` Never fear -- I will take care of myself . ''
 Robert Leaven resumed -- " Missis had been out of health herself for some time : she had got very stout , but was not strong with it ; and the loss of money and fear of poverty were quite breaking her down .
 `` Yes ; and I will do it now ; '' and having directed him to the servants ' hall , and recommended him to the care of John 's wife , and the attentions of John himself , I went in search of Mr. Rochester .
 So I addressed the housekeeper ; asked her to show me a room , told her I should probably be a visitor here for a week or two , had my trunk conveyed to my chamber , and followed it thither myself : I met Bessie on the landing .
 Provided with a case of pencils , and some sheets of paper , I used to take a seat apart from them , near the window , and busy myself in sketching fancy vignettes , representing any scene that happened momentarily to shape itself in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of imagination : a glimpse of sea between two rocks ; the rising moon , and a ship crossing its disk ; a group of reeds and water-flags , and a naiad 's head , crowned with lotus- flowers , rising out of them ; an elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow 's nest , under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom .
 The communications were renewed from day to day : they always ran on the same theme -- herself , her loves , and woes .
 Instead of living for , in , and with yourself , as a reasonable being ought , you seek only to fasten your feebleness on some other person 's strength : if no one can be found willing to burden her or himself with such a fat , weak , puffy , useless thing , you cry out that you are ill-treated , neglected , miserable .
 I proposed to walk the distance quietly by myself ; and very quietly , after leaving my box in the ostler 's care , did I slip away from the George Inn , about six o 'clock of a June evening , and take the old road to Thornfield : a road which lay chiefly through fields , and was now little frequented .
 " This very day I shall take you in the carriage to Millcote , and you must choose some dresses for yourself .
 `` I am not an angel , '' I asserted ; " and I will not be one till I die : I will be myself .
 `` That you may , my good little girl : there is not another being in the world has the same pure love for me as yourself -- for I lay that pleasant unction to my soul , Jane , a belief in your affection . ''
 I 'll be married in this lilac gingham : you may make a dressing-gown for yourself out of the pearl-grey silk , and an infinite series of waistcoats out of the black satin . " He chuckled ; he rubbed his hands .
 `` I will leave you by yourself , white dream , '' I said .
 The cloven halves were not broken from each other , for the firm base and strong roots kept them unsundered below ; though community of vitality was destroyed -- the sap could flow no more : their great boughs on each side were dead , and next winter 's tempests would be sure to fell one or both to earth : as yet , however , they might be said to form one tree -- a ruin , but an entire ruin .
 You call her a strange being yourself : from all you know , you have reason so to call her -- what did she do to me ? what to Mason ?
 The second stranger , who had hitherto lingered in the background , now drew near ; a pale face looked over the solicitor 's shoulder -- yes , it was Mason himself .
 He could not then hasten to England himself , to extricate you from the snare into which you had fallen , but he implored Mr. Mason to lose no time in taking steps to prevent the false marriage .
 I was in my own room as usual -- just myself , without obvious change : nothing had smitten me , or scathed me , or maimed me .
 He put wine to my lips ; I tasted it and revived ; then I ate something he offered me , and was soon myself .
 " Sir , your wife is living : that is a fact acknowledged this morning by yourself .
 Far from desiring to publish the connection , he became as anxious to conceal it as myself .
 The first I chose was Celine Varens -- another of those steps which make a man spurn himself when he recalls them .
 The next day I observed you -- myself unseen -- for half-an- hour , while you played with Adele in the gallery .
 " Mr. Rochester , I no more assign this fate to you than I grasp at it for myself .
 Still indomitable was the reply -- " _ I _ care for myself .
 Of yourself you could come with soft flight and nestle against my heart , if you would : seized against your will , you will elude the grasp like an essence -- you will vanish ere I inhale your fragrance .
 If you 've any followers -- housebreakers or such like -- anywhere near , you may tell them we are not by ourselves in the house ; we have a gentleman , and dogs , and guns . "
 Never once in their dialogues did I hear a syllable of regret at the hospitality they had extended to me , or of suspicion of , or aversion to , myself .
 Yes , and deems , and is bound to deem , himself honoured by the lot , and aspires but after the day when the cross of separation from fleshly ties shall be laid on his shoulders , and when the Head of that church-militant of whose humblest members he is one , shall give the word , ' Rise , follow Me ! ' "
 A dog -- old Carlo , Mr. Rivers ' pointer , as I saw in a moment -- was pushing the gate with his nose , and St. John himself leant upon it with folded arms ; his brow knit , his gaze , grave almost to displeasure , fixed on me .
 I learnt so much from himself in an inroad I once , despite his reserve , had the daring to make on his confidence .
 Moreover , she is a sweet girl -- rather thoughtless ; but you would have sufficient thought for both yourself and her .
 It seems her career there was very honourable : from a pupil , she became a teacher , like yourself -- really it strikes me there are parallel points in her history and yours -- she left it to be a governess : there , again , your fates were analogous ; she undertook the education of the ward of a certain Mr. Rochester . "
 He then went on to explain that Hindostanee was the language he was himself at present studying ; that , as he advanced , he was apt to forget the commencement ; that it would assist him greatly to have a pupil with whom he might again and again go over the elements , and so fix them thoroughly in his mind ; that his choice had hovered for some time between me and his sisters ; but that he had fixed on me because he saw I could sit at a task the longest of the three .
 This I could do in the beginning : soon ( for I know your powers ) you would be as strong and apt as myself , and would not require my help . "
 " And I will give the missionary my energies -- it is all he wants -- but not myself : that would be only adding the husk and shell to the kernel .
 He has again and again explained that it is not himself , but his office he wishes to mate .
 All the house was still ; for I believe all , except St. John and myself , were now retired to rest .
 It fell again : the thought struck it : -- " Your master himself may be beyond the British Channel , for aught you know : and then , if he is at Thornfield Hall , towards which you hasten , who besides him is there ?
 " Yes , indeed was he ; and he went up to the attics when all was burning above and below , and got the servants out of their beds and helped them down himself , and went back to get his mad wife out of her cell .
 His countenance reminded one of a lamp quenched , waiting to be re-lit -- and alas ! it was not himself that could now kindle the lustre of animated expression : he was dependent on another for that office !
 ' Well ! ' thought Alice to herself , ' after such a fall as this , I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs !
 She ate a little bit , and said anxiously to herself , ' Which way ? Which way ? ' , holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing , and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size : to be sure , this generally happens when one eats cake , but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen , that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way .
 Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off , and she swam nearer to make out what it was : at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus , but then she remembered how small she was now , and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself .
 ' Why , ' said the Dodo , ' the best way to explain it is to do it . ' ( And , as you might like to try the thing yourself , some winter day , I will tell you how the Dodo managed it . )
 She hastily put down the bottle , saying to herself ' That 's quite enough -- I hope I sha n't grow any more -- As it is , I ca n't get out at the door -- I do wish I had n't drunk quite so much ! '
 Still she went on growing , and , as a last resource , she put one arm out of the window , and one foot up the chimney , and said to herself ' Now I can do no more , whatever happens .
 ' I ca n't explain myself , I 'm afraid , sir ' said Alice , ' because I 'm not myself , you see . '
 ' There 's no such thing ! ' Alice was beginning very angrily , but the Hatter and the March Hare went ' Sh ! sh ! ' and the Dormouse sulkily remarked , ' If you ca n't be civil , you 'd better finish the story for yourself . '
 ' My name is Alice , so please your Majesty , ' said Alice very politely ; but she added , to herself , ' Why , they 're only a pack of cards , after all .
 The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes : then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight : then it chuckled . ' What fun ! ' said the Gryphon , half to itself , half to Alice .
 She said this last word two or three times over to herself , being rather proud of it : for she thought , and rightly too , that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all . However , ' jury-men ' would have done just as well .
 My notion was that you had been ( Before she had this fit ) An obstacle that came between Him , and ourselves , and it .
 Do n't let him know she liked them best , For this must ever be A secret , kept from all the rest , Between yourself and me . '
 ' All right , so far , ' said the King , and he went on muttering over the verses to himself : ' `` We know it to be true -- '' that 's the jury , of course -- `` I gave her one , they gave him two -- '' why , that must be what he did with the tarts , you know -- '
 First , she dreamed of little Alice herself , and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee , and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers -- she could hear the very tones of her voice , and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that would always get into her eyes -- and still as she listened , or seemed to listen , the whole place around her became alive the strange creatures of her little sister 's dream .
 Lastly , she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers would , in the after-time , be herself a grown woman ; and how she would keep , through all her riper years , the simple and loving heart of her childhood : and how she would gather about her other little children , and make their eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale , perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago : and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows , and find a pleasure in all their simple joys , remembering her own child-life , and the happy summer days .
 When he went for walks he talked to the servant , who , like himself , came from the country .
 But at the end of his third year his parents withdrew him from the school to make him study medicine , convinced that he could even take his degree by himself .
 He did not willingly take his hands out of his pockets , and did not spare expense in all that concerned himself , liking to eat well , to have good fires , and to sleep well .
 When he saw that the rest were far behind he stopped to take breath , slowly rosined his bow , so that the strings should sound more shrilly , then set off again , by turns lowering and raising his neck , the better to mark time for himself .
 Then noting the melancholy face of the graceful animal , who yawned slowly , she softened , and comparing her to herself , spoke to her aloud as to somebody in trouble whom one is consoling .
 Everyone was waltzing , Mademoiselle d 'Andervilliers herself and the Marquis ; only the guests staying at the castle were still there , about a dozen persons .
 His work done , he did not come back again all day , for Charles on his return put up his horse himself , unsaddled him and put on the halter , while the servant-girl brought a bundle of straw and threw it as best she could into the manger .
 Sometimes Emma tucked the red borders of his under-vest unto his waistcoat , rearranged his cravat , and threw away the dirty gloves he was going to put on ; and this was not , as he fancied , for himself ; it was for herself , by a diffusion of egotism , of nervous irritation .
 She ordered dishes for herself , then she did not touch them ; one day drank only pure milk , the next cups of tea by the dozen .
 I tell you again you are doing yourself harm , much harm !
 Myself , for example , how often has it happened to me to look on the bureau for my pen to write a label , and to find , after all , that I had put it behind my ear ! "
 `` Moreover , '' said the druggist , `` the practice of medicine is not very hard work in our part of the world , for the state of our roads allows us the use of gigs , and generally , as the farmers are prosperous , they pay pretty well . We have , medically speaking , besides the ordinary cases of enteritis , bronchitis , bilious affections , etc . , now and then a few intermittent fevers at harvest-time ; but on the whole , little of a serious nature , nothing special to note , unless it be a great deal of scrofula , due , no doubt , to the deplorable hygienic conditions of our peasant dwellings . Ah ! you will find many prejudices to combat , Monsieur Bovary , much obstinacy of routine , with which all the efforts of your science will daily come into collision ; for people still have recourse to novenas , to relics , to the priest , rather than come straight to the doctor or the chemist . The climate , however , is not , truth to tell , bad , and we even have a few nonagenarians in our parish . The thermometer ( I have made some observations ) falls in winter to 4 degrees Centigrade at the outside , which gives us 24 degrees Reaumur as the maximum , or otherwise 54 degrees Fahrenheit ( English scale ) , not more . And , as a matter of fact , we are sheltered from the north winds by the forest of Argueil on the one side , from the west winds by the St. Jean range on the other ; and this heat , moreover , which , on account of the aqueous vapours given off by the river and the considerable number of cattle in the fields , which , as you know , exhale much ammonia , that is to say , nitrogen , hydrogen and oxygen ( no , nitrogen and hydrogen alone ) , and which sucking up into itself the humus from the ground , mixing together all those different emanations , unites them into a stack , so to say , and combining with the electricity diffused through the atmosphere , when there is any , might in the long run , as in tropical countries , engender insalubrious miasmata - this heat , I say , finds itself perfectly tempered on the side whence it comes , or rather whence it should come - that is to say , the southern side - by the south-eastern winds , which , having cooled themselves passing over the Seine , reach us sometimes all at once like breezes from Russia . ''
 He had knocked about the world , he talked about Berlin , Vienna , and Strasbourg , of his soldier times , of the mistresses he had had , the grand luncheons of which he had partaken ; then he was amiable , and sometimes even , either on the stairs , or in the garden , would seize hold of her waist , crying , `` Charles , look out for yourself . ''
 The fire was out , the clock went on ticking , and Emma vaguely marvelled at this calm of all things while within herself was such tumult .
 Then watching her sleep , the little anxiety she felt gradually wore off , and she seemed very stupid to herself , and very good to have been so worried just now at so little .
 When the moment for the farewells had come , Madame Homais wept , Justin sobbed ; Homais , as a man of nerve , concealed his emotion ; he wished to carry his friend 's overcoat himself as far as the gate of the notary , who was taking Leon to Rouen in his carriage .
 Mind the cold ; take care of yourself ; look after yourself . "
 " Do you think that to be an agriculturist it is necessary to have tilled the earth or fattened fowls oneself ?
 `` This is no longer the time , gentlemen , when civil discord ensanguined our public places , when the landlord , the business-man , the working-man himself , falling asleep at night , lying down to peaceful sleep , trembled lest he should be awakened suddenly by the noise of incendiary tocsins , when the most subversive doctrines audaciously sapped foundations . ''
 For how should we clothe ourselves , how nourish ourselves , without the agriculturist ?
 " Apply yourselves , above all , to the amelioration of the soil , to good manures , to the development of the equine , bovine , ovine , and porcine races .
 And from the sleeves of her red jacket looked out two large hands with knotty joints , the dust of barns , the potash of washing the grease of wools had so encrusted , roughened , hardened these that they seemed dirty , although they had been rinsed in clear water ; and by dint of long service they remained half open , as if to bear humble witness for themselves of so much suffering endured .
 `` Ah ! very good ! very good ! For myself , I am here , just as you see me , since break of day ; but the weather is so muggy , that unless one had the bird at the mouth of the gun - ''
 " For myself , I am very well , except for a cold I caught the other day at the fair at Yvetot , where I had gone to hire a shepherd , having turned away mine because he was too dainty .
 He ran to his mother ; she was beside herself . She stammered
 The beadle , standing aloof , was inwardly angry at this individual who took the liberty of admiring the cathedral by himself .
 She asked him for some verses - some verses `` for herself , '' a `` love poem '' in honour of her .
 `` Do n't see them ; do n't go out ; think only of ourselves ; love me ! ''
 He explained everything through her old nervous illness , and reproaching himself with having taken her infirmities for faults , accused himself of egotism , and longed to go and take her in his arms .
 In fact someone had sent his mother a long anonymous letter to warn her that he was `` ruining himself with a married woman , '' and the good lady at once conjuring up the eternal bugbear of families , the vague pernicious creature , the siren , the monster , who dwells fantastically in depths of love , wrote to Lawyer Dubocage , his employer , who behaved perfectly in the affair . He kept him for three quarters of an hour trying to open his eyes , to warn him of the abyss into which he was falling . Such an intrigue would damage him later on , when he set up for himself . He implored him to break with her , and , if he would not make this sacrifice in his own interest , to do it at least for his , Dubocage 's sake .
 Everything , even herself , was now unbearable to her .
 `` What 's bothering her ? '' said the nurse to herself . `` Why has she come here ? ''
 Rodolphe interrupted her , declaring he was `` hard up '' himself .
 Everyone in his hospital trembled when he was angry ; and his students so revered him that they tried , as soon as they were themselves in practice , to imitate him as much as possible .
 Homais dilated in Amphytrionic pride , and the affecting thought of Bovary vaguely contributed to his pleasure by a kind of egotistic reflex upon himself .
 The cure wiped his fingers , threw the bit of cotton dipped in oil into the fire , and came and sat down by the dying woman , to tell her that she must now blend her sufferings with those of Jesus Christ and abandon herself to the divine mercy .
 He sent her kisses ; he dragged himself towards the grave , to engulf himself with her .
 Let the reader picture to himself now , this immense , oblong hall , illuminated by the pallid light of a January day , invaded by a motley and noisy throng which drifts along the walls , and eddies round the seven pillars , and he will have a confused idea of the whole effect of the picture , whose curious details we shall make an effort to indicate with more precision .
 Gringoire commented on it bitterly to himself .
 Let the reader picture to himself a series of visages presenting successively all geometrical forms , from the triangle to the trapezium , from the cone to the polyhedron ; all human expressions , from wrath to lewdness ; all ages , from the wrinkles of the new − born babe to the wrinkles of the aged and dying ; all religious phantasmagories , from Faun to Beelzebub ; all animal profiles , from the maw to the beak , from the jowl to the muzzle .
 Let the reader picture to himself in bacchanal form , Salvator Rosa 's battle .
 The persons who , like ourselves , never cross the Place de Grève without casting a glance of pity and sympathy on that poor turret strangled between two hovels of the time of Louis XV . , can easily reconstruct in their minds the aggregate of edifices to which it belonged , and find again entire in it the ancient Gothic place of the fifteenth century .
 As for himself , he had never seen the blockade so complete ; he heard his stomach sounding a parley , and he considered it very much out of place that evil destiny should capture his philosophy by famine .
 `` Whence comes this chill ? '' he said abruptly , to himself .
 You form for yourselves a great idea of the thing .
 The new art takes the monument where it finds it , incrusts itself there , assimilates it to itself , develops it according to its fancy , and finishes it if it can .
 A sign from Claude and the idea of giving him pleasure would have sufficed to make Quasimodo hurl himself headlong from the summit of Notre − Dame .
 He took it upon himself to reply to the archdeacon 's question , − −
 At her death , at the moment when she was passing to the other sepulchre , she had bequeathed this one in perpetuity to afflicted women , mothers , widows , or maidens , who should wish to pray much for others or for themselves , and who should desire to inter themselves alive in a great grief or a great penance .
 She has the same opinion as yourself of these vagabonds of Egypt , who play the tambourine and tell fortunes to the public .
 I will tell you then ( but it is not necessary for us to halt that I may tell you the tale ) , that Paquette la Chantefleurie was a pretty maid of eighteen when I was one myself , that is to say , eighteen years ago , and it is her own fault if she is not to − day , like me , a good , plump , fresh mother of six and thirty , with a husband and a son .
 She nursed her child herself , made swaddling − bands for it out of her coverlet , the only one which she had on her bed , and no longer felt either cold or hunger .
 She went about the town , searched all the streets , ran hither and thither the whole day long , wild , beside herself , terrible , snuffingat doors and windows like a wild beast which has lost its young .
 It is certain that if the soul had not already quitted this inert , sluggish , lethargic body , it had at least retreated and concealed itself in depths whither the perceptions of the exterior organs no longer penetrated .
 One thing is certain , and that is , that there was not a soul in the crowd , not even himself , though in turn triumphant and the sufferer , who set forth this combination clearly in his thought .
 It is certain that a vague and indistinct desire to please the handsome officer animated them all , that his splendid uniform was the target of all their coquetries , and that from the moment he presented himself , there existed among them a secret , suppressed rivalry , which they hardly acknowledged even to themselves , but which broke forth , none the less , every instant , in their gestures and remarks .
 This irritation was not diminished when she beheld the captain , enchanted with the gypsy , and , most of all , with himself , execute a pirouette on his heel , repeating with coarse , naïve , and soldierly gallantry , − −
 `` The devil ! '' said Jehan , to himself , `` it is a long while to wait for a crown ! ''
 The King of France himself , in consequence of once having inconsiderately knocked at the door of the thermaturgist , sank to the knees through the pavement of his own Paris .
 But it is a devil of a man ; he wearies even Pierrat Torterue himself , who hath hands larger than my own .
 `` Master Pierrat − − Master Jacques , I mean , busy yourself with Marc Cenaine . ''
 These last ideas , which had gradually led him back from himself to science , appeared to have calmed him .
 While speaking thus in his softest voice , he approached extremely near the gypsy ; his caressing hands resumed their place around her supple and delicate waist , his eye flashed more and more , and everything announced that Monsieur Phoebus was on the verge of one of those moments when Jupiter himself commits so many follies that Homer is obliged to summon a cloud to his rescue .
 For a while she had tried to count the black minutes measured off for her by the drop of water ; but that melancholy labor of an ailing brain had broken off of itself in her head , and had left her in stupor .
 He seized her arm , he was beside himself , he tried to drag her away .
 Madame de Gondelaurier herself , still maternally seated in her big arm − chair , had not the heart to scold him .
 The crowd became silent , and , in the midst of this silence full of anxiety and solemnity , the two leaves of the grand door swung back , as of themselves , on their hinges , which gave a creak like the sound of a fife .
 There was another moment when , while laughing diabolically at himself , he represented to himself la Esmeralda as he had seen her on that first day , lively , careless , joyous , gayly attired , dancing , winged , harmonious , and la Esmeralda of the last day , in her scanty shift , with a rope about her neck , mounting slowly with her bare feet , the angular ladder of the gallows ; he figured to himself this double picture in such a manner .that he gave vent to a terrible cry .
 This flight from nature , life , himself , man , God , everything , lasted all day long .
 But the vision was in himself .
 Then she dropped her eyes upon herself and saw that she was almost naked , and blushed .
 When I compare myself to you , I feel a very great pity for myself , poor unhappy monster that I am !
 Love is like a tree ; it sprouts forth of itself , sends its roots out deeply through our whole being , and often continues to flourish greenly over a heart in ruins .
 Let us add that the church , that vast church , which surrounded her on every side , which guarded her , which saved her , was itself a sovereign tranquillizer .
 He had kept all the pain to himself .
 The priest , beside himself , was about to seize it .
 He had thought it very simple on the part of people who had , like herself , nothing else in prospect but Charmolue and Torterue , and who , unlike himself , did not gallop through the regions of imagination between the wings of Pegasus .
 And then , from morning till night , I have the happiness of passing all my days with a man ofgenius , who is myself , which is very agreeable . "
 If I had only another one myself !
 He imagined that there existed a popular hatred against her , as against himself , and that it was very possible that something might happen soon .
 The locksmiths , although protected by the deep vaults of the portal , abandoned the door and Clopin himself retired to a respectful distance from the church .
 `` Churches have been known to defend themselves thus all by themselves , '' he remarked with a sigh .
 Hold , Master Olivier ; I desire to see that cage myself .
 That the gendarmes of the unattached troops , the feudal nobles , the free archers , and the Swiss inflict infinite evils on the rustics . − − That the military , not content with what they find in the houses of the rustics , constrain them with violent blows of cudgel or of lash to go and get wine , spices , and other unreasonable things in the town . − − That monsieur the king knows this . That we undertake to guard our people against inconveniences , larcenies and pillage . − − That such is our will , by our Lady ! − − That in addition , it suits us not that any fiddler , barber , or any soldier varlet should be clad like a prince , in velvet , cloth of silk , and rings of gold . − − That these vanities are hateful to God . − − That we , who are gentlemen , content ourselves with a doublet of cloth at sixteen sols the ell , of Paris . − − That messieurs the camp − followers can very well come down to that , also . − − Command and ordain . − − To Monsieur de Rouault , our friend . − − Good . "
 A touch from the young girl , as she drew her foot from under him , brought him to himself .
 If it were myself , I would say nothing ; but she , a child of sixteen !
 The rope made several gyrations on itself , and Quasimodo beheld horrible convulsions run along the gypsy 's body .
 Let the reader picture to himself , crowning a limestone hillock , an oblong mass of masonry fifteen feet in height , thirty wide , forty long , with a gate , an external railing and a platform ; on this platform sixteen enormous pillars of rough hewn stone , thirty feet in height , arranged in a colonnade round three of the four sides of the mass which support them , bound together at their summits by heavy beams , whence hung chains at intervals ; on all these chains , skeletons ; in the vicinity , on the plain , a stone cross and two gibbets of secondary importance , which seemed to have sprung up as shoots around the central gallows ; above all this , in the sky , a perpetual flock of crows ; that was Montfauçon .
 It 's not really part of my job to be friendly towards you like this , but I hope no-one , apart from Franz , will hear about it , and he 's been more friendly towards you than he should have been , under the rules , himself .
 I just need few words with someone of the same social standing as myself and everything will be incomparably clearer , much clearer than a long conversation with these two can make it .
 In itself , he found the order very welcome .
 `` What I mean is ... , '' said K. without delaying a second time , " that , yes , I am very surprised but when you 've been in the world for thirty years already and had to make your own way through everything yourself , which has been my lot , then you become hardened to surprises and do n't take them too hard .
 That spring , whenever possible , K. usually spent his evenings after work - he usually stayed in the office until nine o 'clock - with a short walk , either by himself or in the company of some of the bank officials , and then he would go into a pub where he would sit at the regulars ' table with mostly older men until eleven .
 Miss Bürstner looked at the floor in front of her , quiet and a little sunk in on herself .
 It 's on behalf of them that I stand here now , not for myself alone . "
 `` Do you want to make things a bit better here ? '' the woman asked slowly , watching him as if she were saying something that could be as dangerous for K. as for herself .
 Nice stockings , they are , look , `` - she stretched out her leg , drew her skirt up to her knee and looked , herself , at the stocking - '' they are nice stockings , but they 're too good for me , really . "
 Could he not have that much confidence in himself ?
 And maybe there was no better revenge against the examining judge and his cronies than to take this woman from him and have her for himself .
 If that was how they were accommodated it did not attract much respect , and it was some comfort for the accused to realise how little money this court had at its disposal if it had to locate its offices in a place where the tenants of the building , who were themselves among the poorest of people , would throw their unneeded junk .
 On the other hand , it was possible that the officials had enough money but that they squandered it on themselves rather than use it for the court 's purposes .
 `` Nothing that I know of , '' said the usher . `` And it 's going to get even worse now , up till now he 's only been carrying her off for himself , now he 's started carrying her off for the judge and all , just like I 'd always said he would . ''
 `` Alright then , '' said K. finally , `` I 'll come with you . '' And , quicker than the usher himself , he ran up the steps .
 The usher of the court said a few words to try and calm him down but the guard explained that he had to look into it himself , saluted , and hurried on , walking with very short steps , probably because of gout .
 If you do n't want to go back by yourself come on a bit further with me or else wait here till I 've sorted out my report , then I 'll be glad to go back with you again . "
 But so much soot fell in that the girl had to immediately close the hatch again and clean the soot off K. 's hands with her handkerchief , as K. was too tired to do that for himself .
 So please , be so kind as to help me on my way a little , I 'm feeling dizzy , you see , and it 'll make me ill if I stand up by myself . "
 `` Yes , '' said Mrs. Grubach with a sigh , " I wanted to give her some help and I wanted the maid to help her too but she 's stubborn , she wants to move everything in herself .
 I often feel it 's a burden for me to have Miss Montag as a tenant but Miss Bürstner accepts her into her room with herself . "
 They would be able to do the job the next day , K. nodded , it was too late in the evening to make them do it there and then as he had originally intended . He sat down briefly in order to keep them near him for a little longer , looked through a few of the copies to give the impression that he was checking them and then , as he saw that they would not dare to leave at the same time as himself , went home tired and with his mind numb .
 `` What 's this that I 've been hearing , Josef ? '' cried K. 's uncle when they were alone , as he sat on the table shoving various papers under himself without looking at them to make himself more comfortable .
 I 'm sure that is what will happen and that everything will turn out for the best in the end , but in the mean time things do not look at all good , and you can see that from the mood of the chief clerk himself .
 But will you push things forward yourself with all your strength , if so , that will naturally be far better . "
 Even while he was still speaking , K. 's uncle had stood on tiptoe to summon a taxi and now he pulled K. into the car behind himself as he called out an address to the driver .
 You say he 's ill ? " and strode towards the gentleman in a way that seemed almost threatening , as if he were the illness himself .
 `` I did think , '' she said " you would come out here to me by yourself with me having to call you first .
 The lawyer , in contrast , did not ask questions but did all the talking himself or sat silently facing him , leant forward slightly over the desk , probably because he was hard of hearing , pulled on a strand of hair in the middle of his beard and looked down at the carpet , perhaps at the very spot where K. had lain with Leni .
 Never attract attention to yourself !
 How could he ever carry on by himself after he 's taken on help from a lawyer ?
 Earlier , just a week or so before , he could only have felt shame at the thought of being made to write out such documents himself ; it had never entered his head that the task could also be difficult .
 But the deputy director did not notice this at all , or if he did notice it it only raised his spirits , he frequently laughed out loud , one time he clearly embarrassed the manufacturer when he raised an objection in a witty way but drew him immediately back out of his embarrassment by commenting adversely on himself , and finally invited him into his office where they could bring the matter to its conclusion .
 At last , K. was by himself .
 Now , in contrast , if he was to conduct his defence himself , he would have to devote himself entirely to the court - for the time being , at least - success would mean , later on , his complete and conclusive liberation , but if he was to achieve this he would have to place himself , to start with , in far greater danger than he had been in so far .
 Perhaps - this is what I 've been thinking - perhaps Titorelli might be able to help you in some small way , he knows lots of judges and even if he ca n't have much influence himself he can give you some advice about how to get some influential people on your side .
 The painter even seemed to misunderstand why K. remained at the edge of the bed and urged K. to make himself comfortable , and as he hesitated he went over to the bed himself and pressed K. deep down into the bedclothes and pillows .
 I 'll get you out of this by myself . "
 He felt himself as much at liberty as is normally only felt in foreign parts when speaking with people of lower standing , keeping everything about himself to himself , speaking only casually about the interests of the other , able to raise him to a level above one 's own , but also able , at will , to let him drop again .
 K. however went very close behind Leni 's back , leant over her shoulder and asked , `` Who is this man ? '' Leni put one hand around K. as she stirred the soup with the other , she drew him forward toward herself and said , " He 's a pitiful character , a poor businessman by the name of Block .
 I 'm talking about the others , but I 'm no better myself .
 The superstitious beliefs were established a long time ago and they spread all by themselves . "
 But when he talks about them and compares them with himself and his colleagues there 's a small error running through what he says , and , just for your interest , I 'll tell you about it .
 For himself , he wanted to go to the lawyer and , by dismissing him , free himself from not only the lawyer but also from Leni and the businessman . But before he had reached the door the businessman spoke to him gently .
 He had almost closed the door behind himself , but Leni held the door open with her foot , grabbed his arm and tried to pull him back .
 He did seem to be very busy as a lawyer as well a rich man , neither the loss of income nor the loss of a client could have been of much importance to him in themselves .
 `` Was n't I summoned ? '' asked Block , more to himself than the lawyer . He held his hands in front of himself as protection and would have been ready to run away any moment .
 Embarrassed , Block ran his fingers through the pile of the carpet , his anxiety about what the judge had said had let him forget his inferior status towards the lawyer for a while , he thought only about himself and turned the judges words round to examine them from all sides .
 The temptation for once to turn the job down was very great , especially as it had no direct connection with business , but there was no denying that social obligations towards this business contact were in themselves important enough , only not for K. , who knew quite well that he needed some successes at work if he was to maintain his position there and that , if he failed in that , it would not help him even if this Italian somehow found him quite charming ; he did not want to be removed from his workplace for even one day , as the fear of not being allowed back in was too great , he knew full well that the fear was exaggerated but it still made him anxious .
 He thought he needed to apologise to K. for something and told him - they were standing intimately close together - he had thought at first he would accompany the Italian himself , but then - he gave no more precise reason than this - then he decided it would be better to send K. with him .
 One thing that K. could not bear was pity that he had not wanted or expected , he took his leave of her with two words , but as he put the receiver back in its place he said , half to himself and half to the girl on the other end of the line who could no longer hear him , `` Yes , they 're harassing me . ''
 `` That is well substantiated , '' said K. , who had been repeating some parts of the priest 's explanation to himself in a whisper .
 `` But I ca n't find my way round in this darkness by myself , '' said K.
 `` Some ancient , unimportant actors - that 's what they 've sent for me , '' said K. to himself , and looked round once again to confirm this to himself . `` They want to sort me out as cheaply as they can . ''
 Several times he looked back cautiously to see if the policeman was following ; but when they had a corner between themselves and the policeman K. began to run , and the two gentlemen , despite being seriously short of breath , had to run with him .
 K. now knew it would be his duty to take the knife as it passed from hand to hand above him and thrust it into himself .
 Gregor , however , had no thought of opening the door , and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit , acquired from his travelling , of locking all doors at night even when he was at home .
 It was a simple matter to throw off the covers ; he only had to blow himself up a little and they fell off by themselves .
 Gregor only needed to hear the visitor 's first words of greeting and he knew who it was - the chief clerk himself .
 Anyway , I 'm glad you 're here ; we would n't have been able to get Gregor to open the door by ourselves ; he 's so stubborn ; and I 'm sure he is n't well , he said this morning that he is , but he is n't . "
 `` But Sir , '' called Gregor , beside himself and forgetting all else in the excitement , " I 'll open up immediately , just a moment .
 Whatever was said next would be crucial , so , in order to make his voice as clear as possible , he coughed a little , but taking care to do this not too loudly as even this might well sound different from the way that a human coughs and he was no longer sure he could judge this for himself .
 The flight of the chief clerk seemed , unfortunately , to put Gregor 's father into a panic as well . Until then he had been relatively self controlled , but now , instead of running after the chief clerk himself , or at least not impeding Gregor as he ran after him , Gregor 's father seized the chief clerk 's stick in his right hand ( the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair , along with his hat and overcoat ) , picked up a large newspaper from the table with his left , and used them to drive Gregor back into his room , stamping his foot at him as he went .
 One side of his body lifted itself , he lay at an angle in the doorway , one flank scraped on the white door and was painfully injured , leaving vile brown flecks on it , soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all by himself , the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the ground . Then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which released him from where he was held and sent him flying , and heavily bleeding , deep into his room .
 Then , out of consideration for Gregor 's feelings , as she knew that he would not eat in front of her , she hurried out again and even turned the key in the lock so that Gregor would know he could make things as comfortable for himself as he liked .
 When explaining things , his father repeated himself several times , partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with these matters himself and partly because Gregor 's mother did not understand everything the first time . From these repeated explanations Gregor learned , to his pleasure , that despite all their misfortunes there was still some money available from the old days .
 Besides that , they had not been using up all the money that Gregor had been bringing home every month , keeping only a little for himself , so that that , too , had been accumulating .
 In itself , his sister 's not coming into the room would have been no surprise for Gregor as it would have been difficult for her to immediately open the window while he was still there , but not only did she not come in , she went straight back and closed the door behind her , a stranger would have thought he had threatened her and tried to bite her .
 The old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair of feeble women to be heaving about , but Gregor listened as they pushed it from its place , his sister always taking on the heaviest part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother 's warnings that she would strain herself .
 Grete would probably be the only one who would dare enter a room dominated by Gregor crawling about the bare walls by himself .
 He meant to be as careful and considerate as he could , but , unfortunately , it was his mother who came back first while Grete in the next room had her arms round the chest , pushing and pulling at it from side to side by herself without , of course , moving it an inch .
 This is what peace I get in my old age ! " And supported by the two women he would lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load himself , let the women take him to the door , send them off and carry on by himself while Gregor 's mother would throw down her needle and his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and continue being of help to him .
 But his mother was to be punished still more for what she had done , as hardly had his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the change in Gregor 's room and , highly aggrieved , ran back into the living room where , despite her mothers raised and imploring hands , she broke into convulsive tears . Her father , of course , was startled out of his chair and the two parents looked on astonished and helpless ; then they , too , became agitated ; Gregor 's father , standing to the right of his mother , accused her of not leaving the cleaning of Gregor 's room to his sister ; from her left , Gregor 's sister screamed at her that she was never to clean Gregor 's room again ; while his mother tried to draw his father , who was beside himself with anger , into the bedroom ; his sister , quaking with tears , thumped on the table with her small fists ; and Gregor hissed in anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him the sight of this and all its noise .
 `` Oh yes , we 'd love to , '' called back Gregor 's father as if he had been the violin player himself .
 When they are , it is easier to hold them , especially when they have not been accustomed to self-government ; and to hold them securely it is enough to have destroyed the family of the prince who was ruling them ; because the two peoples , preserving in other things the old conditions , and not being unlike in customs , will live quietly together , as one has seen in Brittany , Burgundy , Gascony , and Normandy , which have been bound to France for so long a time : and , although there may be some difference in language , nevertheless the customs are alike , and the people will easily be able to get on amongst themselves .
 So that in respect to those subject states he has not to take any trouble to gain them over to himself , for the whole of them quickly rally to the state which he has acquired there .
 And when fighting afterwards amongst themselves , each one was able to attach to himself his own parts of the country , according to the authority he had assumed there ; and the family of the former lord being exterminated , none other than the Romans were acknowledged .
 But when cities or countries are accustomed to live under a prince , and his family is exterminated , they , being on the one hand accustomed to obey and on the other hand not having the old prince , can not agree in making one from amongst themselves , and they do not know how to govern themselves .
 For this reason they are very slow to take up arms , and a prince can gain them to himself and secure them much more easily .
 Of the Orsini he had a warning when , after taking Faenza and attacking Bologna , he saw them go very unwillingly to that attack . And as to the king , he learned his mind when he himself , after taking the Duchy of Urbino , attacked Tuscany , and the king made him desist from that undertaking ; hence the duke decided to depend no more upon the arms and the luck of others .
 Having exterminated the leaders , and turned their partisans into his friends , the duke laid sufficiently good foundations to his power , having all the Romagna and the Duchy of Urbino ; and the people now beginning to appreciate their prosperity , he gained them all over to himself .
 And because he knew that the past severity had caused some hatred against himself , so , to clear himself in the minds of the people , and gain them entirely to himself , he desired to show that , if any cruelty had been practised , it had not originated with him , but in the natural sternness of the minister .
 But it appearing a paltry thing to serve under others , he resolved , with the aid of some citizens of Fermo , to whom the slavery of their country was dearer than its liberty , and with the help of the Vitelleschi , to seize Fermo . So he wrote to Giovanni Fogliani that , having been away from home for many years , he wished to visit him and his city , and in some measure to look upon his patrimony ; and although he had not laboured to acquire anything except honour , yet , in order that the citizens should see he had not spent his time in vain , he desired to come honourably , so would be accompanied by one hundred horsemen , his friends and retainers ; and he entreated Giovanni to arrange that he should be received honourably by the Fermians , all of which would be not only to his honour , but also to that of Giovanni himself , who had brought him up .
 He killed all the malcontents who were able to injure him , and strengthened himself with new civil and military ordinances , in such a way that , in the year during which he held the principality , not only was he secure in the city of Fermo , but he had become formidable to all his neighbours .
 Hence it is to be remarked that , in seizing a state , the usurper ought to examine closely into all those injuries which it is necessary for him to inflict , and to do them all at one stroke so as not to have to repeat them daily ; and thus by not unsettling men he will be able to reassure them , and win them to himself by benefits .
 They had , besides this , used every art to lessen fatigue and danger to themselves and their soldiers , not killing in the fray , but taking prisoners and liberating without ransom .
 And the way to make ready one 's own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be reflected upon , and if one will consider how Philip , the father of Alexander the Great , and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves , to which rules I entirely commit myself .
 For this reason many consider that a wise prince , when he has the opportunity , ought with craft to foster some animosity against himself , so that , having crushed it , his renown may rise higher .
 And if there are some who think that a prince who conveys an impression of his wisdom is not so through his own ability , but through the good advisers that he has around him , beyond doubt they are deceived , because this is an axiom which never fails : that a prince who is not wise himself will never take good advice , unless by chance he has yielded his affairs entirely to one person who happens to be a very prudent man .
 This again either does not happen , or , if it does , it will not be for your security , because that deliverance is of no avail which does not depend upon yourself ; those only are reliable , certain , and durable that depend on yourself and your valour .
 I dread the events of the future , not in themselves , but in their results .
 It was , beyond doubt , the coincidence alone which had arrested my attention ; for , amid the rattling of the sashes of the casements , and the ordinary commingled noises of the still increasing storm , the sound , in itself , had nothing , surely , which should have interested or disturbed me .
 Nevertheless he felt his unhappy position and pitied his wife , his children , and himself .
 Oblonsky understood that Matthew meant to have a joke and draw attention to himself .
 WHEN HE WAS QUITE DRESSED Oblonsky sprinkled some scent on himself , pulled down his cuffs , and as usual distributing in different pockets his cigarette-case , matches , pocket-book , and the watch with its double chain and bunch of charms , he shook out his handkerchief , and feeling clean , sweet , healthy , and physically bright in spite of his misfortune , went with a slight spring in each step into the dining-room where his coffee stood ready . Beside the coffee lay letters and papers from the Office .
 Wait a bit , and you 'd be in the same position yourself .
 But Levin was in love , and therefore Kitty seemed to him so perfect in every respect , so transcending everything earthly , and he seemed to himself so very earthly and insignificant a creature , that the possibility of his being considered worthy of her by others or by herself was to him unimaginable .
 He thought a plain kindly fellow like himself might be loved as a friend , but to be loved with the kind of love he felt for Kitty , a man must be handsome and above all remarkable .
 He had seen in the papers the articles they were discussing , and had read them because they interested him as a development of the bases of natural science - familiar to him as he had studied in that faculty at the University but he had never connected these scientific deductions as to man 's animal origin , reflex actions , biology and sociology , with those questions concerning the meaning to himself of life and death , which had of late more and more frequently occurred to him .
 He had to make an effort and reason with himself that all sorts of people were passing near her and he himself might have come just to skate .
 When he thought about her he could vividly picture to himself her entire person , and especially the charm of her small , fair-haired head , so lightly poised on the shapely girlish shoulders , and the childlike brightness and kindness of her face .
 Oblonsky repeated these lines with a subtle smile and Levin himself could not help smiling . ' No , but joking apart , ' continued Oblonsky , ' just consider .
 But just consider , here are two women : one insists only on her rights , and her rights are your love , which you can not give her ; and the other sacrifices herself and demands nothing .
 You have a consistent character yourself and you wish all the facts of life to be consistent , but they never are .
 She felt that this evening , when those two men were to meet for the first time , would decide her fate ; and she kept picturing them to herself , now individually and now together .
 With her thought of Vronsky was mingled some uneasiness , though he was an extremely well-bred and quiet-mannered man ; a sense of something false , not in him , for he was very simple and kindly , but in herself ; whereas in relation to Levin she felt herself quite simple and clear .
 ' Oh God , must I tell him so myself ? ' she thought . ' Must I really tell him that I do n't care for him ?
 As soon as her brother came up to her she threw her left arm round his neck with a movement that struck Vronsky by its firmness and grace , and drawing him to herself gave him a vigorous kiss .
 On his way back in the train he talked with his fellow-passengers about politics and the new railways , and felt oppressed , just as in Moscow , by the confusion of the views expressed , by discontent with himself and a vague sense of shame .
 He felt that he was himself and did not wish to be anyone else .
 And suddenly the joyous thought came uppermost : ' In two years ' time I shall have two Dutch cows in my herd and Pava herself may still be alive ; there will be twelve cows by Berkut , and these three to crown all - splendid ! '
 She was particularly struck by the feeling of dissatisfaction with herself which she experienced when she met him . It was that ordinary well-known feeling , as if she were dissembling , which she experienced in regard to her husband , but formerly she had not noticed it , while now she was clearly and painfully conscious of it .
 But have a wash and smarten yourself up , ' said the Baroness , again sitting down and carefully turning a small screw of the coffee-pot . ' Pierre , pass me the coffee , ' she said to Petritsky whom , not concealing their relations , she called Pierre ( the French for Peter ) , because of his surname .
 Such a discovery could now only deprive her of her accustomed family life , and she let herself be deceived , despising him , and especially herself , for such weakness .
 Now she knew them all as well as the inhabitants of a provincial town know one another ; she knew the habits and weaknesses of each of them , and where the shoe pinched this or that foot ; she knew their relations to one another and to the governing centre ; she knew who sided with whom , and how and by what means each supported himself , and who agreed or disagreed with whom and about what ; but ( in spite of admonitions and advice from the Countess Lydia Ivanovna ) this bureaucratic circle of male interests could not interest Anna , and she avoided it .
 No one knows ; but their host 's footman , in answer to their question whether `` girls '' lived there , replies that there are a lot of them thereabouts . After dinner the young men go into the host 's study to compose a letter to the fair stranger , and , having written one full of passion and containing a declaration , they carry it upstairs themselves , in order to explain anything that might not be quite clear in the letter . '
 One of us is stupid , and you know it 's impossible to say so of oneself . '
 I can not think about you and about myself separately .
 Not these two ladies alone , but nearly all those present in the drawing-room , even the Princess Myagkaya and Betsy herself , several times glanced across at the pair who had gone away from the general circle , as if their having done so disturbed the others .
 Your feelings concern your own conscience , but it is my duty to you , to myself , and to God , to point out to you your duties .
 Pale , with trembling lower jaw , he stood over her , entreating her to be calm , himself not knowing why or how .
 I do n't like to do things badly myself and I see that others do n't .
 Oblonsky went down and himself carefully took the canvas cover off the varnished case , opened it , and set to work to put together his valuable gun , which was of the newest type .
 ' Here it is ! ' answered Levin , pointing to Laska , who with one ear erect , wagging her fluffy , high-arched tail , stepping slowly as if to prolong the pleasure and seeming almost to smile , brought the dead bird to her master . ' Well , I 'm glad you got it , ' said Levin , and while he spoke he was already experiencing a feeling of envy at not having killed the bird himself .
 Ryabinin himself was already in the house and met the two friends in the hall .
 He did not distinguish what kind of love it was , great or small , passionate or passionless , guilty or pure ( he himself , the father of a family , kept a ballet girl , and was therefore lenient in these matters ) : but he knew that it was a love affair which displeased those whom it is necessary to please , and he therefore disapproved of his brother 's conduct .
 Vronsky respected and liked Yashvin , particularly because he felt that the latter liked him , not for his name and money but for himself .
 It was a feeling of revulsion against something , against Karenin , or against himself or against the whole world - he hardly knew which .
 And for the first time the clear idea occurred to him that it was necessary to put an end to all this falsehood , and the sooner the better . ' Throw up everything and let us two conceal ourselves somewhere alone with our love , ' said he to himself .
 They had not arranged this , but it had come about of itself .
 It was as if there was something that she could not , and would not , make clear to herself , or as if , as soon as she began to speak about this matter , she , the real Anna , withdrew into herself and another woman appeared who was strange and alien to him , whom he feared and did not like , and who resisted him .
 I will tell it you all in advance , ' and an evil light came into her eyes which a minute before had been so tender . ' - `` Ah , you love another and have entered into a guilty union with him ? '' - ' ( mimicking her husband , she laid just such a stress on the word guilty as Karenin himself would have done ) . ' - " I warned you of the consequences from the religious , civil , and family points of view .
 He is not a man , but a machine , and a cruel machine when angry , ' she added , picturing Karenin to herself with every detail of his figure and way of speaking ,
 Karenin thought and said that in no previous year had he had so much official business as this year ; but he was not conscious of the fact that this year he invented work for himself , and that this was one of the means of keeping that compartment closed where lay his feelings for and thoughts of his family , which became more terrible the longer they lay there .
 He did not let himself think about this and did not think about it , yet at the bottom of his soul , without admitting it to himself or having any proofs or even suspicions of it , he nevertheless knew certainly that he was a wronged husband , and was therefore profoundly unhappy .
 Without acknowledging it to himself , Karenin now looked out for opportunities of having a third person present at his interviews with his wife .
 On leaving the stand Karenin as usual spoke to people he met , and Anna as usual had to reply and make conversation ; but she was beside herself and walked as in a dream , holding her husband 's arm .
 ' Well , if you want to so much , I will inquire about her first and will speak to her myself , ' answered her mother . ' What do you see particular in her ?
 THE PARTICULARS THE PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKAYA LEARNT about Varenka 's past and about her relations with Madame Stahl , and about Madame Stahl herself , were the following :
 ' Shameful in what respect ? ' she said . ' You could not have told a man who was himself indifferent to you that you loved him ? '
 It was one of those things which one knows and yet can not say even to oneself - so dreadful and shameful would it be to make a mistake .
 ' I do n't know very well myself .
 ' But I am not talking about others , only about myself . '
 There was no one in church except peasants , innkeepers and their womenfolk ; but Dolly saw , or thought she saw , the rapture produced in them by her children and herself .
 Being aware of this and of the fact that any expression he could at that moment find for his feelings would be incompatible with the situation , he tried to conceal all signs of life within himself and neither moved nor looked at her .
 He did not acknowledge it to himself , but in the depths of his soul he wished her to suffer for impairing his peace of mind and his honour . And having reviewed the possibilities of a duel , of divorce , and of separation , and having again rejected them , Karenin came to the conclusion that there was only one course to be followed : to keep her with him , hiding from the world what had happened , and taking all necessary steps to put a stop to her love-affair , and above all ( though he did not confess this to himself to punish her .
 Like all such matters it went on of itself , by inertia .
 The approaching step of the footman recalled her to herself , and hiding her face from him she pretended to be writing .
 And she felt again a schism in her soul , and again was frightened by the feeling ; so she seized the first pretext for action that occurred to her to divert her thoughts from herself . ' I must see Alexis , ' as she called Vronsky in her thoughts .
 But latterly new inner relations had sprung up between himself and her , which frightened him by their indefiniteness .
 Ambition was the old motive of his childhood and youth , one which he did not acknowledge even to himself , but which was so strong a passion that it now struggled against his love .
 A playmate of his childhood , and his fellow-pupil at the Cadet Corps ; Serpukhovskoy , who belonged to the same social circle , and who had finished the same year as himself and had been his rival in the classroom , at gymnastics , in mischief , and in ambitious dreams , had just returned from Central Asia , where he had gained two steps in official rank and had won a distinction rarely awarded to so young a General .
 As soon as he reached Petersburg people began to talk about him as a rising star of the first magnitude : Of the same age as Vronsky , and his messmate , Serpukhovskoy was already a General expecting an appointment that might have an influence on State affairs ; while Vronsky , though independent and brilliant and beloved by an enchanting woman , remained only a Cavalry Captain and was allowed to be as independent as he pleased . ' Of course I am not jealous and could not be jealous of Serpukhovskoy , but his promotion shows me that if one bides one 's time the career of such a man as myself may be very quickly made .
 All that he saw from the carriage window through the cold pure air in the pale light of the evening sky seemed as fresh , bright and vigorous as he was himself . The roofs of the houses glittered in the evening sun ; the sharp outlines of the fences and corners of buildings , the figures of people and vehicles they occasionally met , the motionless verdure of the grass and trees , the fields of potatoes with their clear-cut ridge , the slanting shadows of the houses and trees , the bushes and even the potato ridges - it was all pleasant and like a landscape newly painted and varnished .
 ' It was not at all hard for me - it all came about of itself , ' she said , irritably . ' And here ... ' she pulled her husband 's note from under her glove .
 She understood at once that he had already considered this by himself , knew that whatever he might say he would not tell her all that he was thinking , and knew that her last hopes had been deceived .
 ' Ours is peasant 's business ; we look after everything ourselves .
 Sviyazhsky 's home life was extremely pleasant , and Sviyazhsky himself was the best type of social worker that Levin had ever known , and Levin always found him very interesting .
 ' All I wish to say is , ' said Levin , ' why should we not seek them for ourselves ? '
 ' And how do you agree with Spencer yourself in this matter ? '
 It was true that the peasants of that group , though they had agreed to farm the land on the new conditions , did not speak of it as co-operatively held land , but as land held for payment in kind ; and that the members of that group and Rezunov himself said to Levin : ' If you would only accept money for the land it would be less trouble for you , and we should feel freer . ' Moreover , these peasants , on all sorts of pretexts , kept putting off the building of the cattle-sheds and granary they had agreed to put up on this land , and dragged the matter on till winter .
 But in spite of this , Levin thought matters were getting on , and that by keeping strict accounts and insisting on having his way he would eventually be able to prove to the peasants the advantage of these new arrangements , and that things would then go on of themselves .
 The fact that the author of it is myself , Constantine Levin , who once went to a ball in a black tie , whom Kitty Shcherbatskaya refused , and who seems so pitiful and insignificant to himself proves nothing .
 ' That must form a short preface , such as I formerly considered unnecessary . ' He rose to go to his writing-table , and Laska , who was lying at his feet , stretched herself , also got up , and looked round at him as if asking where she was to go to .
 ' I am not bothering about them : I am doing it for myself . '
 It was within himself too he felt it .
 And at the thought of how it was going to happen she felt so sorry for herself that the tears came into her eyes and she could not continue .
 ' That 's all very well , but you think only of yourself !
 Stremov stood aside , pretending to have blindly followed Karenin 's plans and to be himself indignant now at what had been done , thus undermining Karenin .
 Karenin himself , as the Petersburg way is when one dines with ladies , was in evening dress with a white tie , and Oblonsky saw by his face that he had come only to keep his promise , and by being in that company was fulfilling an unpleasant duty .
 Karenin smiled coldly with his lips only , wishing to prove to her and to himself the firmness of his conviction ; but this passionate defence , though it did not shake him , lacerated his wound .
 Wait a bit . I will tell you about myself .
 He was vexed , not so much at having missed that post himself and at having been obviously passed over , as at the incomprehensible and surprising fact that they did not realize how much less suitable than anyone else was that voluble windbag , Stremov .
 By his sick wife 's bedside he had for the first time in his life given rein to that feeling of tender sympathy which the suffering of others evoked in him ; and which he had till then been ashamed of , as of a weakness ; and his pity for her , remorse at having wished for her death , and above all the joy of forgiving , in itself gave him not only relief from suffering but inward peace such as he had never before experienced .
 He pitied his son too , more than he had done before , and reproached himself for not having paid more attention to him .
 Try and realize it : even his looks have a physical effect on me and drive me beside myself .
 I understand that you can not take it upon yourself to express your wishes and feelings . '
 ' I hope you believe in my affection for my sister and my sincere attachment and respect for yourself , ' said he , blushing .
 How have I deserved this ? ' thought Karenin , recalling the particulars of a divorce-suit in which the husband took all the blame on himself ; and with the same ashamed gesture with which Vronsky had covered his face , he hid his own in his hands .
 ' Do n't talk and do n't think about it ' he said , playing with her hand and trying to draw her attention to himself ; but she continued to gaze past him .
 ' I have never come across a more. decided foe of marriage than yourself , ' remarked Sergius Ivanich .
 Anything would be better than continual shame , misery , infidelity ! ' With his heart full of despair and bitterness toward every one , toward himself and her , he left the hotel and went to her .
 The priest continually sent a chanter or deacon to see whether the bridegroom had arrived , and he himself , in his purple surplice with the embroidered girdle , went with increasing frequency to the side door in expectation of the bridegroom .
 The whole of her life , all her desires and hopes , were concentrated on this one man , still incomprehensible to her , to whom she was bound by a feeling - even more incomprehensible than the man himself - which now attracted and now repelled her .
 She could not think of or desire anything but life with this man ; but , as that life had not yet begun , she could not even clearly picture it to herself .
 THE NEGLECTED OLD PALAZZO with its high stucco ceilings , its wall frescoes and mosaic floors , with heavy yellow damask hangings at the big windows , vases standing on brackets and mantelshelves , carved doors , and sombre halls filled with pictures , - that palazzo , when they had moved into it , by its very appearance kept alive in Vronsky the pleasant delusion that he was not so much a Russian landowner and equerry without a post as an enlightened connoisseur and art patron , and withal a modest artist himself , who had renounced the world , his connections and ambitions , for the sake of the woman he loved .
 Vronsky painted her , admired her beauty and her ' mediaevalness , ' and Anna dared not confess to herself that she was afraid of being jealous of the nurse ; so she treated the woman with special kindness and spoilt her and her little son .
 Though he had imagined his ideas about family life to be most exact , he , like all men , had involuntarily pictured it to himself as merely the enjoyment of love - which nothing should be allowed to hinder and from which one should not be distracted by petty cares .
 Far an instant he was offended , but immediately knew he could not be offended with her because she was himself .
 Like a man half-asleep and oppressed with pain , he wanted to tear off the aching part and cast it from him , but found on waking that the aching part was - himself .
 They both tried in after life to efface from their memories all the ugly shameful circumstances of this unhealthy time during which they were rarely in a normal state and rarely themselves .
 And Levin dimly felt that though she was not herself in fault - she never could be in fault - it was the fault of her bringing up , which was too superficial and frivolous . ' That fool Charsky !
 Levin told his wife he believed she only wanted to go that she might be of use , and agreed that Mary Nikolavna 's presence at his brother 's would not make it at all improper ; but he was going , dissatisfied in the depths of his heart with both himself and her .
 ' Do n't come here , ' muttered the sick man angrily . ' I can myself ... '
 She , prompted by some inner conviction , thought of him , and everything came out right . She talked to him about herself and about her wedding , smiled , sympathized , caressed him , mentioned cases of recovery , and it was all successful , so she evidently knew what she was about .
 She ordered supper to be brought , unpacked their things herself , helped to make the beds and did not forget to sprinkle insect powder on them .
 In spite of his assurances to the contrary she was persuaded that he was a Christian , like , and even better than , herself and that all he said about it was one of his funny male whims , like his sayings about her embroidery : that good people darn holes , while she cut holes on purpose ... and so on .
 The invalid fell quietly asleep , but awoke half an hour later with a fit of coughing , and immediately every hope fled from those around him and from himself .
 The reality of his sufferings destroyed it , leaving no trace nor even any recollection of the former hopes , in Levin , Kitty , or the patient himself .
 Only the invalid himself did not show that desire , but on the contrary was angry because the doctor had not been fetched , and he continued taking medicine and talking of life .
 Without rendering account to himself why he did it , during those two days he tried with all his might to appear calm and even indifferent .
 He felt that he could not divert from himself people 's hatred , because that hatred was caused not by his badness ( had it been so he might have tried to be better ) but by his disgraceful and repulsive misery .
 I am no longer a man ! ' said Karenin , releasing her hand but continuing to gaze into her tearful eyes . ' My position is terrible because I can not find support anywhere , can not find it even in myself . '
 Do not thank me . I am not doing it of myself ... '
 ' But , my dear friend , do not give way to that feeling you were speaking about - of being ashamed of that which is the utmost height of Christianity ! `` He that humbleth himself shall be exalted , '' and you must not thank me ! - You must thank Him , and ask Him for help .
 Forgive me for reminding you of myself .
 That cessation was an accomplished fact , clearly visible to every one , though Karenin himself had not yet realized that his career was at an end .
 Renewed pain for yourself , and pain for the child !
 This letter achieved the secret purpose which the Countess Lydia Ivanovna hid even from herself . It wounded Anna to the depths of her soul .
 ' Serezha ! ' said his tutor , a Slav , stopping in the doorway that led to the inner rooms , ' take it off yourself . '
 He imagined his father suddenly receiving the Orders of Vladimir and Saint Andrew , and how much kinder in consequence he would be to-day at lesson-time , and how he himself when he grew up would receive all the Orders , and that they would invent one higher than the Saint Andrew .
 He was aware that the teacher himself did not believe what he was saying ; he felt that by the tone in which the words were uttered . ' But why have they all agreed to speak in the same way about the dullest and most useless things ?
 He went down frowning to his rooms , and taking a seat beside Yashvin , who sat with his long legs stretched out on a chair drinking brandy and seltzer , ordered the same for himself .
 Tushkevich , Yashvin , the Princess Barbara ... ' he pictured them to himself . ' And what of me ?
 All these were relations and friends of Kitty 's , and , though Levin liked them , he regretted his own - the Levin - world and order of things , which was being submerged by this influx of ' the Shcherbatsky element , ' as he put it to himself .
 Her disbelief in his dissatisfaction with himself was pleasant , and unconsciously he challenged her to give reasons for her disbelief .
 ' It 's very nice at their place , ' Vasenka was saying , talking of Vronsky and Anna . ' Of course I do not take it upon myself to judge , but in their house one feels oneself to be in a family . '
 In the depth of her soul she was conscious that there had been something just at the moment when Veslovsky had followed her to the other end of the table , but she dared not own this even to herself , much less make up her mind to tell him and so increase his pain .
 At length the door opened noisily and out bounded , spinning round and round in the air , Krak , Oblonsky 's yellow spotted pointer , followed by Oblonsky himself with a gun in his hand and a cigar in his mouth . ' Quiet , quiet , Krak ! ' he said affectionately to the dog , which was throwing its paws up against his stomach and chest and getting them entangled in his game-bag .
 So the coachman rode back on the side-horse and Levin drove the other two himself .
 ' What the devil brings him here ? ' muttered Levin to himself , turning back to the vehicle . ' Why did you leave the road ? ' he asked drily , and calling the coachman , set to work to get the horses out .
 ' Do you know , you will bring trouble on yourself , ' said Oblonsky , having found his cap and getting up .
 Is Papa , who has kept scarcely anything for himself , to help us ? ...
 Here they are themselves ! ' cried the man , pointing to four persons on horseback and two in a char-a-banc coming along the road .
 ' Tell me about yourselves . I meet Steve in passing , but he ca n't tell me about the children .
 The Count goes into everything himself .
 But actually seeing her among these people so alien to herself , with their fashionable tone which was quite new to her , Dolly felt ill at ease .
 Veslovsky offered his arm to the Princess Barbara before Tushkevich could do so , so that the latter , the steward , and the doctor went in by themselves .
 Vasenka Veslovsky , her husband , and even Sviyazhsky and many others whom she knew , never thought about these things , and readily believed , what every decent host wishes his guests to feel , that all that is so well arranged at his house has cost him no trouble but has come about of itself .
 All that day she felt as if she were acting in a theatre with better actors than herself , and that her bad performance was spoiling the whole affair .
 ' But tell me about yourself . I have much to talk to you about and I have been talking with ...
 There she not only helped , but arranged and planned many things herself .
 Nevertheless , her chief preoccupation was still herself - herself in so far as Vronsky held her dear and in so far as she could compensate him for all he had given up .
 To free himself from this feeling he went , without waiting to hear the end of the discussion , into the refreshment room , where there was no one except the waiters at the buffet .
 But she understood him not from without but from within and saw that in town he was not himself ; she could not otherwise define his condition .
 With him it was a sign of great displeasure , not with her but with himself .
 Well , you see , any other woman in her position might fail to find resources in herself .
 I restrain myself , wait , invent occupations for myself , - the English family , writing , reading , but all that is only deception , it is all a kind of morphia .
 During those two hours in Bolgarinov 's waiting-room he had walked about boldly , smoothing his whiskers , entering into conversation with other applicants , inventing a joke to tell , of how he had waited at the Jew 's , carefully concealing his feelings from others and even from himself .
 ' She has done what everybody , except myself , does secretly , and she would not deceive , and has acted splendidly .
 At the French Theatre , where he arrived in time for the last act , and afterwards at the Tartar Restaurant , where he had some champagne , Oblonsky was able to some extent to breathe again in an atmosphere congenial to him , but nevertheless he was not at all himself that evening .
 ' Is it possible that I ca n't ... ? Is it possible that I ca n't take it on myself ? ' she wondered , and began again from the beginning .
 I need calm and confidence ; and I will take the blame on myself . Yes , now , as soon as he comes back , I will tell him I was to blame , though in fact I was not , and we will go away ! '
 Thoughts of where she would now go : to the aunt who had brought her up , to Dolly , or simply abroad by herself ; of what he was now doing , alone in the study ; of whether this quarrel was final or whether a reconciliation was still possible ; of what all her former Petersburg acquaintances would say of her now ; how Karenin would regard it ; and many other thoughts about what would happen now after the rupture , passed through her mind , but she did not give herself up entirely to these thoughts .
 And death , as the sole means of reviving love for herself in his heart , of punishing him , and of gaining the victory in that contest which an evil spirit in her heart was waging against him , presented itself clearly and vividly to her .
 I was myself coming to see you , ' said Dolly . ' I had a letter from Steve to-day . '
 ' Well , in that case I know what I must do , ' said she to herself , and conscious of a vague sense of wrath and a desire for vengeance rising within her , she ran upstairs . ' I shall go to him myself .
 Remembering Karenin , she pictured him to herself with extraordinary vividness , as if he stood before her , with his mild , dull , lifeless eyes , the blue veins of his white hands , his intonations , his cracking fingers , and remembering the feeling that had once existed between them and which had also been called love , she shuddered with revulsion . ' Well , I get divorced and become Vronsky 's wife !
 She spoke softly , because the rapid beating of her heart impeded her breathing . ' No , I will not let you torture me , ' she thought , addressing her threat not to him nor to herself but to that which forced her to suffer , and she walked along the platform , past the station buildings .
 ' There ! ' she said to herself , looking at the shadow of the truck on the mingled sand and coal dust which covered the sleepers . ' There , into the very middle , and I shall punish him and escape from everybody and from myself ! '
 All this was put with so much wit that Koznyshev himself would not have been averse to wielding it ; and that was what was dreadful .
 He admitted that the papers published much that was unnecessary and exaggerated with the sole aim of drawing attention to themselves , each outcrying the other .
 He was a modest , quiet man , who evidently deferred to the knowledge of the retired Guardsman and to the heroic self-sacrifice of the merchant and did not talk at all about himself .
 We had no idea that she was herself there at the station .
 When I ran to his room he was beside himself - it was terrible to see him .
 It was not a mere guess - the bond between herself and the baby had not yet been severed - and she knew surely by the flow of milk within herself that he was wanting food .
 Following long definitions of vague words such as spirit , will , freedom , substance , and deliberately entering the verbal trap set for him by the philosophers , or by himself , he seemed to begin to understand something .
 All that spring he was not himself and experienced terrible moments .
 These matters interested him , not because he justified them to himself by any general theories as he had done previously ; on the contrary , being now on the one hand disenchanted by the ill-success of his former occupations for the general welfare , and on the other hand too much occupied with his own thoughts and by the mass of affairs that overwhelmed him from all sides , he quite abandoned all calculation of public utility , and these matters interested him only because it seemed to him that he had to do what he was doing , and could not act otherwise .
 Having then for the first time clearly understood that before every man , and before himself , there lay only suffering , death , and eternal oblivion , he had concluded that to live under such conditions was impossible ; that one must either explain life to oneself so that it does not seem to be an evil mockery by some sort of devil , or one must shoot oneself .
 It seemed to him that he had a reply to that question ; but he had no time to express it to himself before he entered the nursery .
 Although my book is intended mainly for the entertainment of boys and girls , I hope it will not be shunned by men and women on that account , for part of my plan has been to try to pleasantly remind adults of what they once were themselves , and of how they felt and thought and talked , and what queer enterprises they sometimes engaged in . THE AUTHOR .
 Mr. Walters was very earnest of mien , and very sincere and honest at heart ; and he held sacred things and places in such reverence , and so separated them from worldly matters , that unconsciously to himself his Sunday-school voice had acquired a peculiar intonation which was wholly absent on week-days .
 And you never can be sorry for the trouble you took to learn them ; for knowledge is worth more than anything there is in the world ; it 's what makes great men and good men ; you 'll be a great man and a good man yourself , some day , Thomas , and then you 'll look back and say , It 's all owing to the precious Sunday-school privileges of my boyhood -- it 's all owing to my dear teachers that taught me to learn -- it 's all owing to the good superintendent , who encouraged me , and watched over me , and gave me a beautiful Bible -- a splendid elegant Bible -- to keep and have it all for my own , always -- it 's all owing to right bringing up !
 `` Hello yourself , and see how you like it . ''
 You got to go all by yourself , to the middle of the woods , where you know there 's a spunk-water stump , and just as it 's midnight you back up against the stump and jam your hand in and say :
 In a little while the two met at the bottom of the lane , and when they reached the school they had it all to themselves .
 It did not occur to him that he had tried it several times before , himself , but could never find the hiding-places afterward .
 All at once the doctor flung himself free , seized the heavy headboard of Williams ' grave and felled Potter to the earth with it -- and in the same instant the half-breed saw his chance and drove the knife to the hilt in the young man 's breast .
 If Sid really managed to make anything out of Tom 's disjointed mutterings , he kept it to himself .
 When something fresh in this line came out she was in a fever , right away , to try it ; not on herself , for she was never ailing , but on anybody else that came handy .
 Because if he 'd had one she 'd a burnt him out herself !
 But none of the pirates smoked or `` chewed '' but himself .
 He lay and `` breathed '' himself for a time , and then crept to where he could almost touch his aunt 's foot .
 `` It was just so with my Joe -- always full of his devilment , and up to every kind of mischief , but he was just as unselfish and kind as he could be -- and laws bless me , to think I went and whipped him for taking that cream , never once recollecting that I throwed it out myself because it was sour , and I never to see him again in this world , never , never , never , poor abused boy ! ''
 Tom was snuffling , now , himself -- and more in pity of himself than anybody else .
 Tom got more cuffs and kisses that day -- according to Aunt Polly 's varying moods -- than he had earned before in a year ; and he hardly knew which expressed the most gratefulness to God and affection for himself .
 The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face : " I 'll thank you to keep yourself _ to _ yourself , Mr. Thomas Sawyer .
 When the worst came to the worst , she had an impulse to get up and tell on Alfred Temple , but she made an effort and forced herself to keep still -- because , said she to herself , " he 'll tell about me tearing the picture sure .
 Tom took his whipping and went back to his seat not at all broken-hearted , for he thought it was possible that he had unknowingly upset the ink on the spelling-book himself , in some skylarking bout -- he had denied it for form 's sake and because it was custom , and had stuck to the denial from principle .
 The mayor of the village , in delivering the prize to the author of it , made a warm speech in which he said that it was by far the most `` eloquent '' thing he had ever listened to , and that Daniel Webster himself might well be proud of it .
 `` Hello , yourself . ''
 `` Lordy , I do n't want to foller him by myself ! ''
 " Keep your opinion to yourself !
 If he had been Satan himself there would have been plenty of weaklings ready to scribble their names to a pardon-petition , and drip a tear on it from their permanently impaired and leaky water-works .
 I 'll float the skiff down there , and I 'll pull it back again all by myself .
