 Say your prayers , Miss Eyre , when you are by yourself ; for if you do n't repent , something bad might be permitted to come down the chimney and fetch you away . "
 The house-maid alone came here on Saturdays , to wipe from the mirrors and the furniture a week 's quiet dust : and Mrs. Reed herself , at far intervals , visited it to review the contents of a certain secret drawer in the wardrobe , where were stored divers parchments , her jewel-casket , and a miniature of her deceased husband ; and in those last words lies the secret of the red-room -- the spell which kept it so lonely in spite of its grandeur .
 Turning from Bessie ( though her presence was far less obnoxious to me than that of Abbot , for instance , would have been ) , I scrutinised the face of the gentleman : I knew him ; it was Mr. Lloyd , an apothecary , sometimes called in by Mrs. Reed when the servants were ailing : for herself and the children she employed a physician .
 This state of things should have been to me a paradise of peace , accustomed as I was to a life of ceaseless reprimand and thankless fagging ; but , in fact , my racked nerves were now in such a state that no calm could soothe , and no pleasure excite them agreeably .
 It is far better to endure patiently a smart which nobody feels but yourself , than to commit a hasty action whose evil consequences will extend to all connected with you ; and besides , the Bible bids us return good for evil . "
 The other teachers , poor things , were generally themselves too much dejected to attempt the task of cheering others .
 Anybody may blame me who likes , when I add further , that , now and then , when I took a walk by myself in the grounds ; when I went down to the gates and looked through them along the road ; or when , while Adele played with her nurse , and Mrs. Fairfax made jellies in the storeroom , I climbed the three staircases , raised the trap-door of the attic , and having reached the leads , looked out afar over sequestered field and hill , and along dim sky-line -- that then I longed for a power of vision which might overpass that limit ; which might reach the busy world , towns , regions full of life I had heard of but never seen -- that then I desired more of practical experience than I possessed ; more of intercourse with my kind , of acquaintance with variety of character , than was here within my reach .
 `` I should think you ought to be at home yourself , '' said he , `` if you have a home in this neighbourhood : where do you come from ? ''
 `` I can not commission you to fetch help , '' he said ; `` but you may help me a little yourself , if you will be so kind . ''
 I brushed Adele 's hair and made her neat , and having ascertained that I was myself in my usual Quaker trim , where there was nothing to retouch -- all being too close and plain , braided locks included , to admit of disarrangement -- we descended , Adele wondering whether the _ petit coffre _ was at length come ; for , owing to some mistake , its arrival had hitherto been delayed .
 I leave both the choice of subject and the manner of treating it entirely to yourself . "
 God wot I need not be too severe about others ; I have a past existence , a series of deeds , a colour of life to contemplate within my own breast , which might well call my sneers and censures from my neighbours to myself .
 As he had said , there was probably nothing at all extraordinary in the substance of the narrative itself : a wealthy Englishman 's passion for a French dancer , and her treachery to him , were every-day matters enough , no doubt , in society ; but there was something decidedly strange in the paroxysm of emotion which had suddenly seized him when he was in the act of expressing the present contentment of his mood , and his newly revived pleasure in the old hall and its environs .
 I must show her into a room by herself , and then those who wish to consult her must go to her one by one . "
 " It is not my mission to listen to her before the vulgar herd either : I mean to have her all to myself .
 An extinguished candle stood on the table ; she was bending over the fire , and seemed reading in a little black book , like a prayer-book , by the light of the blaze : she muttered the words to herself , as most old women do , while she read ; she did not desist immediately on my entrance : it appeared she wished to finish a paragraph .
 I 'll fetch a surgeon for you now , myself : you 'll be able to be removed by morning , I hope .
 According as the shifting obscurity and flickering gleam hovered here or glanced there , it was now the bearded physician , Luke , that bent his brow ; now St. John 's long hair that waved ; and anon the devilish face of Judas , that grew out of the panel , and seemed gathering life and threatening a revelation of the arch-traitor -- of Satan himself -- in his subordinate 's form .
 Robert Leaven resumed -- " Missis had been out of health herself for some time : she had got very stout , but was not strong with it ; and the loss of money and fear of poverty were quite breaking her down .
 `` Yes ; and I will do it now ; '' and having directed him to the servants ' hall , and recommended him to the care of John 's wife , and the attentions of John himself , I went in search of Mr. Rochester .
 Provided with a case of pencils , and some sheets of paper , I used to take a seat apart from them , near the window , and busy myself in sketching fancy vignettes , representing any scene that happened momentarily to shape itself in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of imagination : a glimpse of sea between two rocks ; the rising moon , and a ship crossing its disk ; a group of reeds and water-flags , and a naiad 's head , crowned with lotus- flowers , rising out of them ; an elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow 's nest , under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom .
 Instead of living for , in , and with yourself , as a reasonable being ought , you seek only to fasten your feebleness on some other person 's strength : if no one can be found willing to burden her or himself with such a fat , weak , puffy , useless thing , you cry out that you are ill-treated , neglected , miserable .
 I proposed to walk the distance quietly by myself ; and very quietly , after leaving my box in the ostler 's care , did I slip away from the George Inn , about six o 'clock of a June evening , and take the old road to Thornfield : a road which lay chiefly through fields , and was now little frequented .
 " This very day I shall take you in the carriage to Millcote , and you must choose some dresses for yourself .
 `` I am not an angel , '' I asserted ; " and I will not be one till I die : I will be myself .
 `` That you may , my good little girl : there is not another being in the world has the same pure love for me as yourself -- for I lay that pleasant unction to my soul , Jane , a belief in your affection . ''
 I 'll be married in this lilac gingham : you may make a dressing-gown for yourself out of the pearl-grey silk , and an infinite series of waistcoats out of the black satin . " He chuckled ; he rubbed his hands .
 You call her a strange being yourself : from all you know , you have reason so to call her -- what did she do to me ? what to Mason ?
 The second stranger , who had hitherto lingered in the background , now drew near ; a pale face looked over the solicitor 's shoulder -- yes , it was Mason himself .
 I was in my own room as usual -- just myself , without obvious change : nothing had smitten me , or scathed me , or maimed me .
 He put wine to my lips ; I tasted it and revived ; then I ate something he offered me , and was soon myself .
 " Sir , your wife is living : that is a fact acknowledged this morning by yourself .
 The first I chose was Celine Varens -- another of those steps which make a man spurn himself when he recalls them .
 " Mr. Rochester , I no more assign this fate to you than I grasp at it for myself .
 Still indomitable was the reply -- " _ I _ care for myself .
 If you 've any followers -- housebreakers or such like -- anywhere near , you may tell them we are not by ourselves in the house ; we have a gentleman , and dogs , and guns . "
 Never once in their dialogues did I hear a syllable of regret at the hospitality they had extended to me , or of suspicion of , or aversion to , myself .
 Yes , and deems , and is bound to deem , himself honoured by the lot , and aspires but after the day when the cross of separation from fleshly ties shall be laid on his shoulders , and when the Head of that church-militant of whose humblest members he is one , shall give the word , ' Rise , follow Me ! ' "
 A dog -- old Carlo , Mr. Rivers ' pointer , as I saw in a moment -- was pushing the gate with his nose , and St. John himself leant upon it with folded arms ; his brow knit , his gaze , grave almost to displeasure , fixed on me .
 I learnt so much from himself in an inroad I once , despite his reserve , had the daring to make on his confidence .
 This I could do in the beginning : soon ( for I know your powers ) you would be as strong and apt as myself , and would not require my help . "
 " And I will give the missionary my energies -- it is all he wants -- but not myself : that would be only adding the husk and shell to the kernel .
 He has again and again explained that it is not himself , but his office he wishes to mate .
 It fell again : the thought struck it : -- " Your master himself may be beyond the British Channel , for aught you know : and then , if he is at Thornfield Hall , towards which you hasten , who besides him is there ?
 His countenance reminded one of a lamp quenched , waiting to be re-lit -- and alas ! it was not himself that could now kindle the lustre of animated expression : he was dependent on another for that office !
 She hastily put down the bottle , saying to herself ' That 's quite enough -- I hope I sha n't grow any more -- As it is , I ca n't get out at the door -- I do wish I had n't drunk quite so much ! '
 Still she went on growing , and , as a last resource , she put one arm out of the window , and one foot up the chimney , and said to herself ' Now I can do no more , whatever happens .
 ' There 's no such thing ! ' Alice was beginning very angrily , but the Hatter and the March Hare went ' Sh ! sh ! ' and the Dormouse sulkily remarked , ' If you ca n't be civil , you 'd better finish the story for yourself . '
 The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes : then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight : then it chuckled . ' What fun ! ' said the Gryphon , half to itself , half to Alice .
 She said this last word two or three times over to herself , being rather proud of it : for she thought , and rightly too , that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all . However , ' jury-men ' would have done just as well .
 My notion was that you had been ( Before she had this fit ) An obstacle that came between Him , and ourselves , and it .
 Do n't let him know she liked them best , For this must ever be A secret , kept from all the rest , Between yourself and me . '
 ' All right , so far , ' said the King , and he went on muttering over the verses to himself : ' `` We know it to be true -- '' that 's the jury , of course -- `` I gave her one , they gave him two -- '' why , that must be what he did with the tarts , you know -- '
 First , she dreamed of little Alice herself , and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee , and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers -- she could hear the very tones of her voice , and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that would always get into her eyes -- and still as she listened , or seemed to listen , the whole place around her became alive the strange creatures of her little sister 's dream .
 But at the end of his third year his parents withdrew him from the school to make him study medicine , convinced that he could even take his degree by himself .
 He did not willingly take his hands out of his pockets , and did not spare expense in all that concerned himself , liking to eat well , to have good fires , and to sleep well .
 Everyone was waltzing , Mademoiselle d 'Andervilliers herself and the Marquis ; only the guests staying at the castle were still there , about a dozen persons .
 His work done , he did not come back again all day , for Charles on his return put up his horse himself , unsaddled him and put on the halter , while the servant-girl brought a bundle of straw and threw it as best she could into the manger .
 Sometimes Emma tucked the red borders of his under-vest unto his waistcoat , rearranged his cravat , and threw away the dirty gloves he was going to put on ; and this was not , as he fancied , for himself ; it was for herself , by a diffusion of egotism , of nervous irritation .
 I tell you again you are doing yourself harm , much harm !
 Myself , for example , how often has it happened to me to look on the bureau for my pen to write a label , and to find , after all , that I had put it behind my ear ! "
 Then watching her sleep , the little anxiety she felt gradually wore off , and she seemed very stupid to herself , and very good to have been so worried just now at so little .
 When the moment for the farewells had come , Madame Homais wept , Justin sobbed ; Homais , as a man of nerve , concealed his emotion ; he wished to carry his friend 's overcoat himself as far as the gate of the notary , who was taking Leon to Rouen in his carriage .
 " Do you think that to be an agriculturist it is necessary to have tilled the earth or fattened fowls oneself ?
 `` This is no longer the time , gentlemen , when civil discord ensanguined our public places , when the landlord , the business-man , the working-man himself , falling asleep at night , lying down to peaceful sleep , trembled lest he should be awakened suddenly by the noise of incendiary tocsins , when the most subversive doctrines audaciously sapped foundations . ''
 For how should we clothe ourselves , how nourish ourselves , without the agriculturist ?
 And from the sleeves of her red jacket looked out two large hands with knotty joints , the dust of barns , the potash of washing the grease of wools had so encrusted , roughened , hardened these that they seemed dirty , although they had been rinsed in clear water ; and by dint of long service they remained half open , as if to bear humble witness for themselves of so much suffering endured .
 `` Ah ! very good ! very good ! For myself , I am here , just as you see me , since break of day ; but the weather is so muggy , that unless one had the bird at the mouth of the gun - ''
 " For myself , I am very well , except for a cold I caught the other day at the fair at Yvetot , where I had gone to hire a shepherd , having turned away mine because he was too dainty .
 He ran to his mother ; she was beside herself . She stammered
 The beadle , standing aloof , was inwardly angry at this individual who took the liberty of admiring the cathedral by himself .
 He explained everything through her old nervous illness , and reproaching himself with having taken her infirmities for faults , accused himself of egotism , and longed to go and take her in his arms .
 `` What 's bothering her ? '' said the nurse to herself . `` Why has she come here ? ''
 Rodolphe interrupted her , declaring he was `` hard up '' himself .
 Everyone in his hospital trembled when he was angry ; and his students so revered him that they tried , as soon as they were themselves in practice , to imitate him as much as possible .
 Homais dilated in Amphytrionic pride , and the affecting thought of Bovary vaguely contributed to his pleasure by a kind of egotistic reflex upon himself .
 The cure wiped his fingers , threw the bit of cotton dipped in oil into the fire , and came and sat down by the dying woman , to tell her that she must now blend her sufferings with those of Jesus Christ and abandon herself to the divine mercy .
 He sent her kisses ; he dragged himself towards the grave , to engulf himself with her .
 Let the reader picture to himself now , this immense , oblong hall , illuminated by the pallid light of a January day , invaded by a motley and noisy throng which drifts along the walls , and eddies round the seven pillars , and he will have a confused idea of the whole effect of the picture , whose curious details we shall make an effort to indicate with more precision .
 Gringoire commented on it bitterly to himself .
 Let the reader picture to himself a series of visages presenting successively all geometrical forms , from the triangle to the trapezium , from the cone to the polyhedron ; all human expressions , from wrath to lewdness ; all ages , from the wrinkles of the new − born babe to the wrinkles of the aged and dying ; all religious phantasmagories , from Faun to Beelzebub ; all animal profiles , from the maw to the beak , from the jowl to the muzzle .
 Let the reader picture to himself in bacchanal form , Salvator Rosa 's battle .
 As for himself , he had never seen the blockade so complete ; he heard his stomach sounding a parley , and he considered it very much out of place that evil destiny should capture his philosophy by famine .
 `` Whence comes this chill ? '' he said abruptly , to himself .
 She has the same opinion as yourself of these vagabonds of Egypt , who play the tambourine and tell fortunes to the public .
 I will tell you then ( but it is not necessary for us to halt that I may tell you the tale ) , that Paquette la Chantefleurie was a pretty maid of eighteen when I was one myself , that is to say , eighteen years ago , and it is her own fault if she is not to − day , like me , a good , plump , fresh mother of six and thirty , with a husband and a son .
 She went about the town , searched all the streets , ran hither and thither the whole day long , wild , beside herself , terrible , snuffingat doors and windows like a wild beast which has lost its young .
 One thing is certain , and that is , that there was not a soul in the crowd , not even himself , though in turn triumphant and the sufferer , who set forth this combination clearly in his thought .
 This irritation was not diminished when she beheld the captain , enchanted with the gypsy , and , most of all , with himself , execute a pirouette on his heel , repeating with coarse , naïve , and soldierly gallantry , − −
 The King of France himself , in consequence of once having inconsiderately knocked at the door of the thermaturgist , sank to the knees through the pavement of his own Paris .
 But it is a devil of a man ; he wearies even Pierrat Torterue himself , who hath hands larger than my own .
 These last ideas , which had gradually led him back from himself to science , appeared to have calmed him .
 While speaking thus in his softest voice , he approached extremely near the gypsy ; his caressing hands resumed their place around her supple and delicate waist , his eye flashed more and more , and everything announced that Monsieur Phoebus was on the verge of one of those moments when Jupiter himself commits so many follies that Homer is obliged to summon a cloud to his rescue .
 He seized her arm , he was beside himself , he tried to drag her away .
 Madame de Gondelaurier herself , still maternally seated in her big arm − chair , had not the heart to scold him .
 The crowd became silent , and , in the midst of this silence full of anxiety and solemnity , the two leaves of the grand door swung back , as of themselves , on their hinges , which gave a creak like the sound of a fife .
 This flight from nature , life , himself , man , God , everything , lasted all day long .
 But the vision was in himself .
 Then she dropped her eyes upon herself and saw that she was almost naked , and blushed .
 When I compare myself to you , I feel a very great pity for myself , poor unhappy monster that I am !
 Love is like a tree ; it sprouts forth of itself , sends its roots out deeply through our whole being , and often continues to flourish greenly over a heart in ruins .
 He had kept all the pain to himself .
 And then , from morning till night , I have the happiness of passing all my days with a man ofgenius , who is myself , which is very agreeable . "
 If I had only another one myself !
 He imagined that there existed a popular hatred against her , as against himself , and that it was very possible that something might happen soon .
 `` Churches have been known to defend themselves thus all by themselves , '' he remarked with a sigh .
 That the gendarmes of the unattached troops , the feudal nobles , the free archers , and the Swiss inflict infinite evils on the rustics . − − That the military , not content with what they find in the houses of the rustics , constrain them with violent blows of cudgel or of lash to go and get wine , spices , and other unreasonable things in the town . − − That monsieur the king knows this . That we undertake to guard our people against inconveniences , larcenies and pillage . − − That such is our will , by our Lady ! − − That in addition , it suits us not that any fiddler , barber , or any soldier varlet should be clad like a prince , in velvet , cloth of silk , and rings of gold . − − That these vanities are hateful to God . − − That we , who are gentlemen , content ourselves with a doublet of cloth at sixteen sols the ell , of Paris . − − That messieurs the camp − followers can very well come down to that , also . − − Command and ordain . − − To Monsieur de Rouault , our friend . − − Good . "
 If it were myself , I would say nothing ; but she , a child of sixteen !
 The rope made several gyrations on itself , and Quasimodo beheld horrible convulsions run along the gypsy 's body .
 Let the reader picture to himself , crowning a limestone hillock , an oblong mass of masonry fifteen feet in height , thirty wide , forty long , with a gate , an external railing and a platform ; on this platform sixteen enormous pillars of rough hewn stone , thirty feet in height , arranged in a colonnade round three of the four sides of the mass which support them , bound together at their summits by heavy beams , whence hung chains at intervals ; on all these chains , skeletons ; in the vicinity , on the plain , a stone cross and two gibbets of secondary importance , which seemed to have sprung up as shoots around the central gallows ; above all this , in the sky , a perpetual flock of crows ; that was Montfauçon .
 It 's not really part of my job to be friendly towards you like this , but I hope no-one , apart from Franz , will hear about it , and he 's been more friendly towards you than he should have been , under the rules , himself .
 I just need few words with someone of the same social standing as myself and everything will be incomparably clearer , much clearer than a long conversation with these two can make it .
 `` What I mean is ... , '' said K. without delaying a second time , " that , yes , I am very surprised but when you 've been in the world for thirty years already and had to make your own way through everything yourself , which has been my lot , then you become hardened to surprises and do n't take them too hard .
 That spring , whenever possible , K. usually spent his evenings after work - he usually stayed in the office until nine o 'clock - with a short walk , either by himself or in the company of some of the bank officials , and then he would go into a pub where he would sit at the regulars ' table with mostly older men until eleven .
 It 's on behalf of them that I stand here now , not for myself alone . "
 `` Do you want to make things a bit better here ? '' the woman asked slowly , watching him as if she were saying something that could be as dangerous for K. as for herself .
 Nice stockings , they are , look , `` - she stretched out her leg , drew her skirt up to her knee and looked , herself , at the stocking - '' they are nice stockings , but they 're too good for me , really . "
 Could he not have that much confidence in himself ?
 If that was how they were accommodated it did not attract much respect , and it was some comfort for the accused to realise how little money this court had at its disposal if it had to locate its offices in a place where the tenants of the building , who were themselves among the poorest of people , would throw their unneeded junk .
 `` Nothing that I know of , '' said the usher . `` And it 's going to get even worse now , up till now he 's only been carrying her off for himself , now he 's started carrying her off for the judge and all , just like I 'd always said he would . ''
 `` Alright then , '' said K. finally , `` I 'll come with you . '' And , quicker than the usher himself , he ran up the steps .
 I often feel it 's a burden for me to have Miss Montag as a tenant but Miss Bürstner accepts her into her room with herself . "
 They would be able to do the job the next day , K. nodded , it was too late in the evening to make them do it there and then as he had originally intended . He sat down briefly in order to keep them near him for a little longer , looked through a few of the copies to give the impression that he was checking them and then , as he saw that they would not dare to leave at the same time as himself , went home tired and with his mind numb .
 `` What 's this that I 've been hearing , Josef ? '' cried K. 's uncle when they were alone , as he sat on the table shoving various papers under himself without looking at them to make himself more comfortable .
 I 'm sure that is what will happen and that everything will turn out for the best in the end , but in the mean time things do not look at all good , and you can see that from the mood of the chief clerk himself .
 Even while he was still speaking , K. 's uncle had stood on tiptoe to summon a taxi and now he pulled K. into the car behind himself as he called out an address to the driver .
 You say he 's ill ? " and strode towards the gentleman in a way that seemed almost threatening , as if he were the illness himself .
 `` I did think , '' she said " you would come out here to me by yourself with me having to call you first .
 The lawyer , in contrast , did not ask questions but did all the talking himself or sat silently facing him , leant forward slightly over the desk , probably because he was hard of hearing , pulled on a strand of hair in the middle of his beard and looked down at the carpet , perhaps at the very spot where K. had lain with Leni .
 Earlier , just a week or so before , he could only have felt shame at the thought of being made to write out such documents himself ; it had never entered his head that the task could also be difficult .
 At last , K. was by himself .
 The painter even seemed to misunderstand why K. remained at the edge of the bed and urged K. to make himself comfortable , and as he hesitated he went over to the bed himself and pressed K. deep down into the bedclothes and pillows .
 I 'll get you out of this by myself . "
 He felt himself as much at liberty as is normally only felt in foreign parts when speaking with people of lower standing , keeping everything about himself to himself , speaking only casually about the interests of the other , able to raise him to a level above one 's own , but also able , at will , to let him drop again .
 K. however went very close behind Leni 's back , leant over her shoulder and asked , `` Who is this man ? '' Leni put one hand around K. as she stirred the soup with the other , she drew him forward toward herself and said , " He 's a pitiful character , a poor businessman by the name of Block .
 I 'm talking about the others , but I 'm no better myself .
 For himself , he wanted to go to the lawyer and , by dismissing him , free himself from not only the lawyer but also from Leni and the businessman . But before he had reached the door the businessman spoke to him gently .
 He had almost closed the door behind himself , but Leni held the door open with her foot , grabbed his arm and tried to pull him back .
 He did seem to be very busy as a lawyer as well a rich man , neither the loss of income nor the loss of a client could have been of much importance to him in themselves .
 `` Was n't I summoned ? '' asked Block , more to himself than the lawyer . He held his hands in front of himself as protection and would have been ready to run away any moment .
 The temptation for once to turn the job down was very great , especially as it had no direct connection with business , but there was no denying that social obligations towards this business contact were in themselves important enough , only not for K. , who knew quite well that he needed some successes at work if he was to maintain his position there and that , if he failed in that , it would not help him even if this Italian somehow found him quite charming ; he did not want to be removed from his workplace for even one day , as the fear of not being allowed back in was too great , he knew full well that the fear was exaggerated but it still made him anxious .
 One thing that K. could not bear was pity that he had not wanted or expected , he took his leave of her with two words , but as he put the receiver back in its place he said , half to himself and half to the girl on the other end of the line who could no longer hear him , `` Yes , they 're harassing me . ''
 `` That is well substantiated , '' said K. , who had been repeating some parts of the priest 's explanation to himself in a whisper .
 `` But I ca n't find my way round in this darkness by myself , '' said K.
 Several times he looked back cautiously to see if the policeman was following ; but when they had a corner between themselves and the policeman K. began to run , and the two gentlemen , despite being seriously short of breath , had to run with him .
 Gregor , however , had no thought of opening the door , and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit , acquired from his travelling , of locking all doors at night even when he was at home .
 Gregor only needed to hear the visitor 's first words of greeting and he knew who it was - the chief clerk himself .
 Anyway , I 'm glad you 're here ; we would n't have been able to get Gregor to open the door by ourselves ; he 's so stubborn ; and I 'm sure he is n't well , he said this morning that he is , but he is n't . "
 The flight of the chief clerk seemed , unfortunately , to put Gregor 's father into a panic as well . Until then he had been relatively self controlled , but now , instead of running after the chief clerk himself , or at least not impeding Gregor as he ran after him , Gregor 's father seized the chief clerk 's stick in his right hand ( the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair , along with his hat and overcoat ) , picked up a large newspaper from the table with his left , and used them to drive Gregor back into his room , stamping his foot at him as he went .
 One side of his body lifted itself , he lay at an angle in the doorway , one flank scraped on the white door and was painfully injured , leaving vile brown flecks on it , soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all by himself , the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the ground . Then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which released him from where he was held and sent him flying , and heavily bleeding , deep into his room .
 Then , out of consideration for Gregor 's feelings , as she knew that he would not eat in front of her , she hurried out again and even turned the key in the lock so that Gregor would know he could make things as comfortable for himself as he liked .
 When explaining things , his father repeated himself several times , partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with these matters himself and partly because Gregor 's mother did not understand everything the first time . From these repeated explanations Gregor learned , to his pleasure , that despite all their misfortunes there was still some money available from the old days .
 Besides that , they had not been using up all the money that Gregor had been bringing home every month , keeping only a little for himself , so that that , too , had been accumulating .
 In itself , his sister 's not coming into the room would have been no surprise for Gregor as it would have been difficult for her to immediately open the window while he was still there , but not only did she not come in , she went straight back and closed the door behind her , a stranger would have thought he had threatened her and tried to bite her .
 The old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair of feeble women to be heaving about , but Gregor listened as they pushed it from its place , his sister always taking on the heaviest part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother 's warnings that she would strain herself .
 Grete would probably be the only one who would dare enter a room dominated by Gregor crawling about the bare walls by himself .
 He meant to be as careful and considerate as he could , but , unfortunately , it was his mother who came back first while Grete in the next room had her arms round the chest , pushing and pulling at it from side to side by herself without , of course , moving it an inch .
 This is what peace I get in my old age ! " And supported by the two women he would lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load himself , let the women take him to the door , send them off and carry on by himself while Gregor 's mother would throw down her needle and his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and continue being of help to him .
 But his mother was to be punished still more for what she had done , as hardly had his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the change in Gregor 's room and , highly aggrieved , ran back into the living room where , despite her mothers raised and imploring hands , she broke into convulsive tears . Her father , of course , was startled out of his chair and the two parents looked on astonished and helpless ; then they , too , became agitated ; Gregor 's father , standing to the right of his mother , accused her of not leaving the cleaning of Gregor 's room to his sister ; from her left , Gregor 's sister screamed at her that she was never to clean Gregor 's room again ; while his mother tried to draw his father , who was beside himself with anger , into the bedroom ; his sister , quaking with tears , thumped on the table with her small fists ; and Gregor hissed in anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him the sight of this and all its noise .
 `` Oh yes , we 'd love to , '' called back Gregor 's father as if he had been the violin player himself .
 So that in respect to those subject states he has not to take any trouble to gain them over to himself , for the whole of them quickly rally to the state which he has acquired there .
 Of the Orsini he had a warning when , after taking Faenza and attacking Bologna , he saw them go very unwillingly to that attack . And as to the king , he learned his mind when he himself , after taking the Duchy of Urbino , attacked Tuscany , and the king made him desist from that undertaking ; hence the duke decided to depend no more upon the arms and the luck of others .
 Having exterminated the leaders , and turned their partisans into his friends , the duke laid sufficiently good foundations to his power , having all the Romagna and the Duchy of Urbino ; and the people now beginning to appreciate their prosperity , he gained them all over to himself .
 And because he knew that the past severity had caused some hatred against himself , so , to clear himself in the minds of the people , and gain them entirely to himself , he desired to show that , if any cruelty had been practised , it had not originated with him , but in the natural sternness of the minister .
 But it appearing a paltry thing to serve under others , he resolved , with the aid of some citizens of Fermo , to whom the slavery of their country was dearer than its liberty , and with the help of the Vitelleschi , to seize Fermo . So he wrote to Giovanni Fogliani that , having been away from home for many years , he wished to visit him and his city , and in some measure to look upon his patrimony ; and although he had not laboured to acquire anything except honour , yet , in order that the citizens should see he had not spent his time in vain , he desired to come honourably , so would be accompanied by one hundred horsemen , his friends and retainers ; and he entreated Giovanni to arrange that he should be received honourably by the Fermians , all of which would be not only to his honour , but also to that of Giovanni himself , who had brought him up .
 He killed all the malcontents who were able to injure him , and strengthened himself with new civil and military ordinances , in such a way that , in the year during which he held the principality , not only was he secure in the city of Fermo , but he had become formidable to all his neighbours .
 They had , besides this , used every art to lessen fatigue and danger to themselves and their soldiers , not killing in the fray , but taking prisoners and liberating without ransom .
 And the way to make ready one 's own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be reflected upon , and if one will consider how Philip , the father of Alexander the Great , and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves , to which rules I entirely commit myself .
 For this reason many consider that a wise prince , when he has the opportunity , ought with craft to foster some animosity against himself , so that , having crushed it , his renown may rise higher .
 And if there are some who think that a prince who conveys an impression of his wisdom is not so through his own ability , but through the good advisers that he has around him , beyond doubt they are deceived , because this is an axiom which never fails : that a prince who is not wise himself will never take good advice , unless by chance he has yielded his affairs entirely to one person who happens to be a very prudent man .
 This again either does not happen , or , if it does , it will not be for your security , because that deliverance is of no avail which does not depend upon yourself ; those only are reliable , certain , and durable that depend on yourself and your valour .
 I dread the events of the future , not in themselves , but in their results .
 Nevertheless he felt his unhappy position and pitied his wife , his children , and himself .
 WHEN HE WAS QUITE DRESSED Oblonsky sprinkled some scent on himself , pulled down his cuffs , and as usual distributing in different pockets his cigarette-case , matches , pocket-book , and the watch with its double chain and bunch of charms , he shook out his handkerchief , and feeling clean , sweet , healthy , and physically bright in spite of his misfortune , went with a slight spring in each step into the dining-room where his coffee stood ready . Beside the coffee lay letters and papers from the Office .
 Wait a bit , and you 'd be in the same position yourself .
 But Levin was in love , and therefore Kitty seemed to him so perfect in every respect , so transcending everything earthly , and he seemed to himself so very earthly and insignificant a creature , that the possibility of his being considered worthy of her by others or by herself was to him unimaginable .
 He had seen in the papers the articles they were discussing , and had read them because they interested him as a development of the bases of natural science - familiar to him as he had studied in that faculty at the University but he had never connected these scientific deductions as to man 's animal origin , reflex actions , biology and sociology , with those questions concerning the meaning to himself of life and death , which had of late more and more frequently occurred to him .
 But just consider , here are two women : one insists only on her rights , and her rights are your love , which you can not give her ; and the other sacrifices herself and demands nothing .
 You have a consistent character yourself and you wish all the facts of life to be consistent , but they never are .
 With her thought of Vronsky was mingled some uneasiness , though he was an extremely well-bred and quiet-mannered man ; a sense of something false , not in him , for he was very simple and kindly , but in herself ; whereas in relation to Levin she felt herself quite simple and clear .
 On his way back in the train he talked with his fellow-passengers about politics and the new railways , and felt oppressed , just as in Moscow , by the confusion of the views expressed , by discontent with himself and a vague sense of shame .
 He felt that he was himself and did not wish to be anyone else .
 And suddenly the joyous thought came uppermost : ' In two years ' time I shall have two Dutch cows in my herd and Pava herself may still be alive ; there will be twelve cows by Berkut , and these three to crown all - splendid ! '
 She was particularly struck by the feeling of dissatisfaction with herself which she experienced when she met him . It was that ordinary well-known feeling , as if she were dissembling , which she experienced in regard to her husband , but formerly she had not noticed it , while now she was clearly and painfully conscious of it .
 Such a discovery could now only deprive her of her accustomed family life , and she let herself be deceived , despising him , and especially herself , for such weakness .
 I can not think about you and about myself separately .
 Your feelings concern your own conscience , but it is my duty to you , to myself , and to God , to point out to you your duties .
 Pale , with trembling lower jaw , he stood over her , entreating her to be calm , himself not knowing why or how .
 Ryabinin himself was already in the house and met the two friends in the hall .
 He did not distinguish what kind of love it was , great or small , passionate or passionless , guilty or pure ( he himself , the father of a family , kept a ballet girl , and was therefore lenient in these matters ) : but he knew that it was a love affair which displeased those whom it is necessary to please , and he therefore disapproved of his brother 's conduct .
 Vronsky respected and liked Yashvin , particularly because he felt that the latter liked him , not for his name and money but for himself .
 It was a feeling of revulsion against something , against Karenin , or against himself or against the whole world - he hardly knew which .
 And for the first time the clear idea occurred to him that it was necessary to put an end to all this falsehood , and the sooner the better . ' Throw up everything and let us two conceal ourselves somewhere alone with our love , ' said he to himself .
 On leaving the stand Karenin as usual spoke to people he met , and Anna as usual had to reply and make conversation ; but she was beside herself and walked as in a dream , holding her husband 's arm .
 THE PARTICULARS THE PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKAYA LEARNT about Varenka 's past and about her relations with Madame Stahl , and about Madame Stahl herself , were the following :
 ' But I am not talking about others , only about myself . '
 There was no one in church except peasants , innkeepers and their womenfolk ; but Dolly saw , or thought she saw , the rapture produced in them by her children and herself .
 Being aware of this and of the fact that any expression he could at that moment find for his feelings would be incompatible with the situation , he tried to conceal all signs of life within himself and neither moved nor looked at her .
 And she felt again a schism in her soul , and again was frightened by the feeling ; so she seized the first pretext for action that occurred to her to divert her thoughts from herself . ' I must see Alexis , ' as she called Vronsky in her thoughts .
 A playmate of his childhood , and his fellow-pupil at the Cadet Corps ; Serpukhovskoy , who belonged to the same social circle , and who had finished the same year as himself and had been his rival in the classroom , at gymnastics , in mischief , and in ambitious dreams , had just returned from Central Asia , where he had gained two steps in official rank and had won a distinction rarely awarded to so young a General .
 As soon as he reached Petersburg people began to talk about him as a rising star of the first magnitude : Of the same age as Vronsky , and his messmate , Serpukhovskoy was already a General expecting an appointment that might have an influence on State affairs ; while Vronsky , though independent and brilliant and beloved by an enchanting woman , remained only a Cavalry Captain and was allowed to be as independent as he pleased . ' Of course I am not jealous and could not be jealous of Serpukhovskoy , but his promotion shows me that if one bides one 's time the career of such a man as myself may be very quickly made .
 All that he saw from the carriage window through the cold pure air in the pale light of the evening sky seemed as fresh , bright and vigorous as he was himself . The roofs of the houses glittered in the evening sun ; the sharp outlines of the fences and corners of buildings , the figures of people and vehicles they occasionally met , the motionless verdure of the grass and trees , the fields of potatoes with their clear-cut ridge , the slanting shadows of the houses and trees , the bushes and even the potato ridges - it was all pleasant and like a landscape newly painted and varnished .
 Sviyazhsky 's home life was extremely pleasant , and Sviyazhsky himself was the best type of social worker that Levin had ever known , and Levin always found him very interesting .
 It was true that the peasants of that group , though they had agreed to farm the land on the new conditions , did not speak of it as co-operatively held land , but as land held for payment in kind ; and that the members of that group and Rezunov himself said to Levin : ' If you would only accept money for the land it would be less trouble for you , and we should feel freer . ' Moreover , these peasants , on all sorts of pretexts , kept putting off the building of the cattle-sheds and granary they had agreed to put up on this land , and dragged the matter on till winter .
 The fact that the author of it is myself , Constantine Levin , who once went to a ball in a black tie , whom Kitty Shcherbatskaya refused , and who seems so pitiful and insignificant to himself proves nothing .
 ' That must form a short preface , such as I formerly considered unnecessary . ' He rose to go to his writing-table , and Laska , who was lying at his feet , stretched herself , also got up , and looked round at him as if asking where she was to go to .
 It was within himself too he felt it .
 And at the thought of how it was going to happen she felt so sorry for herself that the tears came into her eyes and she could not continue .
 Stremov stood aside , pretending to have blindly followed Karenin 's plans and to be himself indignant now at what had been done , thus undermining Karenin .
 Karenin himself , as the Petersburg way is when one dines with ladies , was in evening dress with a white tie , and Oblonsky saw by his face that he had come only to keep his promise , and by being in that company was fulfilling an unpleasant duty .
 By his sick wife 's bedside he had for the first time in his life given rein to that feeling of tender sympathy which the suffering of others evoked in him ; and which he had till then been ashamed of , as of a weakness ; and his pity for her , remorse at having wished for her death , and above all the joy of forgiving , in itself gave him not only relief from suffering but inward peace such as he had never before experienced .
 He pitied his son too , more than he had done before , and reproached himself for not having paid more attention to him .
 ' I hope you believe in my affection for my sister and my sincere attachment and respect for yourself , ' said he , blushing .
 How have I deserved this ? ' thought Karenin , recalling the particulars of a divorce-suit in which the husband took all the blame on himself ; and with the same ashamed gesture with which Vronsky had covered his face , he hid his own in his hands .
 ' Do n't talk and do n't think about it ' he said , playing with her hand and trying to draw her attention to himself ; but she continued to gaze past him .
 ' I have never come across a more. decided foe of marriage than yourself , ' remarked Sergius Ivanich .
 Anything would be better than continual shame , misery , infidelity ! ' With his heart full of despair and bitterness toward every one , toward himself and her , he left the hotel and went to her .
 The priest continually sent a chanter or deacon to see whether the bridegroom had arrived , and he himself , in his purple surplice with the embroidered girdle , went with increasing frequency to the side door in expectation of the bridegroom .
 The whole of her life , all her desires and hopes , were concentrated on this one man , still incomprehensible to her , to whom she was bound by a feeling - even more incomprehensible than the man himself - which now attracted and now repelled her .
 THE NEGLECTED OLD PALAZZO with its high stucco ceilings , its wall frescoes and mosaic floors , with heavy yellow damask hangings at the big windows , vases standing on brackets and mantelshelves , carved doors , and sombre halls filled with pictures , - that palazzo , when they had moved into it , by its very appearance kept alive in Vronsky the pleasant delusion that he was not so much a Russian landowner and equerry without a post as an enlightened connoisseur and art patron , and withal a modest artist himself , who had renounced the world , his connections and ambitions , for the sake of the woman he loved .
 Vronsky painted her , admired her beauty and her ' mediaevalness , ' and Anna dared not confess to herself that she was afraid of being jealous of the nurse ; so she treated the woman with special kindness and spoilt her and her little son .
 Far an instant he was offended , but immediately knew he could not be offended with her because she was himself .
 Like a man half-asleep and oppressed with pain , he wanted to tear off the aching part and cast it from him , but found on waking that the aching part was - himself .
 And Levin dimly felt that though she was not herself in fault - she never could be in fault - it was the fault of her bringing up , which was too superficial and frivolous . ' That fool Charsky !
 Levin told his wife he believed she only wanted to go that she might be of use , and agreed that Mary Nikolavna 's presence at his brother 's would not make it at all improper ; but he was going , dissatisfied in the depths of his heart with both himself and her .
 ' Do n't come here , ' muttered the sick man angrily . ' I can myself ... '
 She , prompted by some inner conviction , thought of him , and everything came out right . She talked to him about herself and about her wedding , smiled , sympathized , caressed him , mentioned cases of recovery , and it was all successful , so she evidently knew what she was about .
 In spite of his assurances to the contrary she was persuaded that he was a Christian , like , and even better than , herself and that all he said about it was one of his funny male whims , like his sayings about her embroidery : that good people darn holes , while she cut holes on purpose ... and so on .
 The invalid fell quietly asleep , but awoke half an hour later with a fit of coughing , and immediately every hope fled from those around him and from himself .
 The reality of his sufferings destroyed it , leaving no trace nor even any recollection of the former hopes , in Levin , Kitty , or the patient himself .
 I am no longer a man ! ' said Karenin , releasing her hand but continuing to gaze into her tearful eyes . ' My position is terrible because I can not find support anywhere , can not find it even in myself . '
 That cessation was an accomplished fact , clearly visible to every one , though Karenin himself had not yet realized that his career was at an end .
 He imagined his father suddenly receiving the Orders of Vladimir and Saint Andrew , and how much kinder in consequence he would be to-day at lesson-time , and how he himself when he grew up would receive all the Orders , and that they would invent one higher than the Saint Andrew .
 He went down frowning to his rooms , and taking a seat beside Yashvin , who sat with his long legs stretched out on a chair drinking brandy and seltzer , ordered the same for himself .
 Her disbelief in his dissatisfaction with himself was pleasant , and unconsciously he challenged her to give reasons for her disbelief .
 In the depth of her soul she was conscious that there had been something just at the moment when Veslovsky had followed her to the other end of the table , but she dared not own this even to herself , much less make up her mind to tell him and so increase his pain .
 At length the door opened noisily and out bounded , spinning round and round in the air , Krak , Oblonsky 's yellow spotted pointer , followed by Oblonsky himself with a gun in his hand and a cigar in his mouth . ' Quiet , quiet , Krak ! ' he said affectionately to the dog , which was throwing its paws up against his stomach and chest and getting them entangled in his game-bag .
 So the coachman rode back on the side-horse and Levin drove the other two himself .
 Is Papa , who has kept scarcely anything for himself , to help us ? ...
 But actually seeing her among these people so alien to herself , with their fashionable tone which was quite new to her , Dolly felt ill at ease .
 All that day she felt as if she were acting in a theatre with better actors than herself , and that her bad performance was spoiling the whole affair .
 To free himself from this feeling he went , without waiting to hear the end of the discussion , into the refreshment room , where there was no one except the waiters at the buffet .
 But she understood him not from without but from within and saw that in town he was not himself ; she could not otherwise define his condition .
 During those two hours in Bolgarinov 's waiting-room he had walked about boldly , smoothing his whiskers , entering into conversation with other applicants , inventing a joke to tell , of how he had waited at the Jew 's , carefully concealing his feelings from others and even from himself .
 ' She has done what everybody , except myself , does secretly , and she would not deceive , and has acted splendidly .
 At the French Theatre , where he arrived in time for the last act , and afterwards at the Tartar Restaurant , where he had some champagne , Oblonsky was able to some extent to breathe again in an atmosphere congenial to him , but nevertheless he was not at all himself that evening .
 I need calm and confidence ; and I will take the blame on myself . Yes , now , as soon as he comes back , I will tell him I was to blame , though in fact I was not , and we will go away ! '
 Thoughts of where she would now go : to the aunt who had brought her up , to Dolly , or simply abroad by herself ; of what he was now doing , alone in the study ; of whether this quarrel was final or whether a reconciliation was still possible ; of what all her former Petersburg acquaintances would say of her now ; how Karenin would regard it ; and many other thoughts about what would happen now after the rupture , passed through her mind , but she did not give herself up entirely to these thoughts .
 I was myself coming to see you , ' said Dolly . ' I had a letter from Steve to-day . '
 She spoke softly , because the rapid beating of her heart impeded her breathing . ' No , I will not let you torture me , ' she thought , addressing her threat not to him nor to herself but to that which forced her to suffer , and she walked along the platform , past the station buildings .
 All this was put with so much wit that Koznyshev himself would not have been averse to wielding it ; and that was what was dreadful .
 He was a modest , quiet man , who evidently deferred to the knowledge of the retired Guardsman and to the heroic self-sacrifice of the merchant and did not talk at all about himself .
 We had no idea that she was herself there at the station .
 When I ran to his room he was beside himself - it was terrible to see him .
 It was not a mere guess - the bond between herself and the baby had not yet been severed - and she knew surely by the flow of milk within herself that he was wanting food .
 Following long definitions of vague words such as spirit , will , freedom , substance , and deliberately entering the verbal trap set for him by the philosophers , or by himself , he seemed to begin to understand something .
 All that spring he was not himself and experienced terrible moments .
 Having then for the first time clearly understood that before every man , and before himself , there lay only suffering , death , and eternal oblivion , he had concluded that to live under such conditions was impossible ; that one must either explain life to oneself so that it does not seem to be an evil mockery by some sort of devil , or one must shoot oneself .
 Although my book is intended mainly for the entertainment of boys and girls , I hope it will not be shunned by men and women on that account , for part of my plan has been to try to pleasantly remind adults of what they once were themselves , and of how they felt and thought and talked , and what queer enterprises they sometimes engaged in . THE AUTHOR .
 And you never can be sorry for the trouble you took to learn them ; for knowledge is worth more than anything there is in the world ; it 's what makes great men and good men ; you 'll be a great man and a good man yourself , some day , Thomas , and then you 'll look back and say , It 's all owing to the precious Sunday-school privileges of my boyhood -- it 's all owing to my dear teachers that taught me to learn -- it 's all owing to the good superintendent , who encouraged me , and watched over me , and gave me a beautiful Bible -- a splendid elegant Bible -- to keep and have it all for my own , always -- it 's all owing to right bringing up !
 In a little while the two met at the bottom of the lane , and when they reached the school they had it all to themselves .
 It did not occur to him that he had tried it several times before , himself , but could never find the hiding-places afterward .
 All at once the doctor flung himself free , seized the heavy headboard of Williams ' grave and felled Potter to the earth with it -- and in the same instant the half-breed saw his chance and drove the knife to the hilt in the young man 's breast .
 When something fresh in this line came out she was in a fever , right away , to try it ; not on herself , for she was never ailing , but on anybody else that came handy .
 But none of the pirates smoked or `` chewed '' but himself .
 He lay and `` breathed '' himself for a time , and then crept to where he could almost touch his aunt 's foot .
 Tom was snuffling , now , himself -- and more in pity of himself than anybody else .
 Tom got more cuffs and kisses that day -- according to Aunt Polly 's varying moods -- than he had earned before in a year ; and he hardly knew which expressed the most gratefulness to God and affection for himself .
 The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face : " I 'll thank you to keep yourself _ to _ yourself , Mr. Thomas Sawyer .
 Tom took his whipping and went back to his seat not at all broken-hearted , for he thought it was possible that he had unknowingly upset the ink on the spelling-book himself , in some skylarking bout -- he had denied it for form 's sake and because it was custom , and had stuck to the denial from principle .
 The mayor of the village , in delivering the prize to the author of it , made a warm speech in which he said that it was by far the most `` eloquent '' thing he had ever listened to , and that Daniel Webster himself might well be proud of it .
 `` Hello , yourself . ''
 " Keep your opinion to yourself !
 I 'll float the skiff down there , and I 'll pull it back again all by myself .
