It contained a bookcase : I soon possessed myself of a volume , taking care that it should be one stored with pictures .
The words in these introductory pages connected themselves with the succeeding vignettes , and gave significance to the rock standing up alone in a sea of billow and spray ; to the broken boat stranded on a desolate coast ; to the cold and ghastly moon glancing through bars of cloud at a wreck just sinking .
`` I want you to come here ; '' and seating himself in an arm-chair , he intimated by a gesture that I was to approach and stand before him .
He gorged himself habitually at table , which made him bilious , and gave him a dim and bleared eye and flabby cheeks .
In guarantee whereof , I attached myself to my seat by my hands .
Miss Abbot joined in -- " And you ought not to think yourself on an equality with the Misses Reed and Master Reed , because Missis kindly allows you to be brought up with them .
They will have a great deal of money , and you will have none : it is your place to be humble , and to try to make yourself agreeable to them . "
`` Unjust ! -- unjust ! '' said my reason , forced by the agonising stimulus into precocious though transitory power : and Resolve , equally wrought up , instigated some strange expedient to achieve escape from insupportable oppression -- as running away , or , if that could not be effected , never eating or drinking more , and letting myself die .
All said I was wicked , and perhaps I might be so ; what thought had I been but just conceiving of starving myself to death ?
It must have been most irksome to find herself bound by a hard-wrung pledge to stand in the stead of a parent to a strange child she could not love , and to see an uncongenial alien permanently intruded on her own family group .
Was it , I asked myself , a ray from the moon penetrating some aperture in the blind ?
`` I was knocked down , '' was the blunt explanation , jerked out of me by another pang of mortified pride ; `` but that did not make me ill , '' I added ; while Mr. Lloyd helped himself to a pinch of snuff .
But Bessie , as soon as she had dressed her young ladies , used to take herself off to the lively regions of the kitchen and housekeeper 's room , generally bearing the candle along with her .
I then sat with my doll on my knee till the fire got low , glancing round occasionally to make sure that nothing worse than myself haunted the shadowy room ; and when the embers sank to a dull red , I undressed hastily , tugging at knots and strings as I best might , and sought shelter from cold and darkness in my crib .
Not being in a condition to remove his doubt , I only cast my eyes down on the two large feet planted on the rug , and sighed , wishing myself far enough away .
I was about to propound a question , touching the manner in which that operation of changing my heart was to be performed , when Mrs. Reed interposed , telling me to sit down ; she then proceeded to carry on the conversation herself .
Now , uttered before a stranger , the accusation cut me to the heart ; I dimly perceived that she was already obliterating hope from the new phase of existence which she destined me to enter ; I felt , though I could not have expressed the feeling , that she was sowing aversion and unkindness along my future path ; I saw myself transformed under Mr. Brocklehurst 's eye into an artful , noxious child , and what could I do to remedy the injury ?
`` Madam , you may : she shall be placed in that nursery of chosen plants , and I trust she will show herself grateful for the inestimable privilege of her election . ''
Not without cause was this sentiment : Mrs. Reed looked frightened ; her work had slipped from her knee ; she was lifting up her hands , rocking herself to and fro , and even twisting her face as if she would cry .
Few children can eat when excited with the thoughts of a journey ; nor could I. Bessie , having pressed me in vain to take a few spoonfuls of the boiled milk and bread she had prepared for me , wrapped up some biscuits in a paper and put them into my bag ; then she helped me on with my pelisse and bonnet , and wrapping herself in a shawl , she and I left the nursery .
`` Silence ! '' ejaculated a voice ; not that of Miss Miller , but one of the upper teachers , a little and dark personage , smartly dressed , but of somewhat morose aspect , who installed herself at the top of one table , while a more buxom lady presided at the other .
I leant against a pillar of the verandah , drew my grey mantle close about me , and , trying to forget the cold which nipped me without , and the unsatisfied hunger which gnawed me within , delivered myself up to the employment of watching and thinking .
At that hour most of the others were sewing likewise ; but one class still stood round Miss Scatcherd 's chair reading , and as all was quiet , the subject of their lessons could be heard , together with the manner in which each girl acquitted herself , and the animadversions or commendations of Miss Scatcherd on the performance .
My first quarter at Lowood seemed an age ; and not the golden age either ; it comprised an irksome struggle with difficulties in habituating myself to new rules and unwonted tasks .
A long stride measured the schoolroom , and presently beside Miss Temple , who herself had risen , stood the same black column which had frowned on me so ominously from the hearthrug of Gateshead .
A brief address on those occasions would not be mistimed , wherein a judicious instructor would take the opportunity of referring to the sufferings of the primitive Christians ; to the torments of martyrs ; to the exhortations of our blessed Lord Himself , calling upon His disciples to take up their cross and follow Him ; to His warnings that man shall not live by bread alone , but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God ; to His divine consolations , `` If ye suffer hunger or thirst for My sake , happy are ye . ''
`` Madam , '' he pursued , `` I have a Master to serve whose kingdom is not of this world : my mission is to mortify in these girls the lusts of the flesh ; to teach them to clothe themselves with shame-facedness and sobriety , not with braided hair and costly apparel ; and each of the young persons before us has a string of hair twisted in plaits which vanity itself might have woven ; these , I repeat , must be cut off ; think of the time wasted , of -- '' Mr. Brocklehurst was here interrupted : three other visitors , ladies , now entered the room .
Now came a pause of ten minutes , during which I , by this time in perfect possession of my wits , observed all the female Brocklehursts produce their pocket-handkerchiefs and apply them to their optics , while the elderly lady swayed herself to and fro , and the two younger ones whispered , `` How shocking ! ''
Now I wept : Helen Burns was not here ; nothing sustained me ; left to myself I abandoned myself , and my tears watered the boards .
" Mr. Brocklehurst is not a god : nor is he even a great and admired man : he is little liked here ; he never took steps to make himself liked .
Miss Temple told Helen Burns to be seated in a low arm-chair on one side of the hearth , and herself taking another , she called me to her side .
" We shall think you what you prove yourself to be , my child .
You have been charged with falsehood ; defend yourself to me as well as you can .
She was pensive a few minutes , then rousing herself , she said cheerfully --
That beck itself was then a torrent , turbid and curbless : it tore asunder the wood , and sent a raving sound through the air , often thickened with wild rain or whirling sleet ; and for the forest on its banks , _ that _ showed only ranks of skeletons .
One evening , in the beginning of June , I had stayed out very late with Mary Ann in the wood ; we had , as usual , separated ourselves from the others , and had wandered far ; so far that we lost our way , and had to ask it at a lonely cottage , where a man and woman lived , who looked after a herd of half-wild swine that fed on the mast in the wood .
She stirred herself , put back the curtain , and I saw her face , pale , wasted , but quite composed : she looked so little changed that my fear was instantly dissipated .
`` Jane , your little feet are bare ; lie down and cover yourself with my quilt . ''
I had the means of an excellent education placed within my reach ; a fondness for some of my studies , and a desire to excel in all , together with a great delight in pleasing my teachers , especially such as I loved , urged me on : I availed myself fully of the advantages offered me .
I imagined myself only to be regretting my loss , and thinking how to repair it ; but when my reflections were concluded , and I looked up and found that the afternoon was gone , and evening far advanced , another discovery dawned on me , namely , that in the interval I had undergone a transforming process ; that my mind had put off all it had borrowed of Miss Temple -- or rather that she had taken with her the serene atmosphere I had been breathing in her vicinity -- and that now I was left in my natural element , and beginning to feel the stirring of old emotions .
The succeeding week seemed long : it came to an end at last , however , like all sublunary things , and once more , towards the close of a pleasant autumn day , I found myself afoot on the road to Lowton .
This note went the round of the committee , and at last , after what appeared to me most tedious delay , formal leave was given me to better my condition if I could ; and an assurance added , that as I had always conducted myself well , both as teacher and pupil , at Lowood , a testimonial of character and capacity , signed by the inspectors of that institution , should forthwith be furnished me .
I now busied myself in preparations : the fortnight passed rapidly .
It is a very strange sensation to inexperienced youth to feel itself quite alone in the world , cut adrift from every connection , uncertain whether the port to which it is bound can be reached , and prevented by many impediments from returning to that it has quitted .
I bethought myself to ring the bell .
`` Will you walk this way , ma 'am ? '' said the girl ; and I followed her across a square hall with high doors all round : she ushered me into a room whose double illumination of fire and candle at first dazzled me , contrasting as it did with the darkness to which my eyes had been for two hours inured ; when I could see , however , a cosy and agreeable picture presented itself to my view .
She conducted me to her own chair , and then began to remove my shawl and untie my bonnet-strings ; I begged she would not give herself so much trouble .
She returned ; with her own hands cleared her knitting apparatus and a book or two from the table , to make room for the tray which Leah now brought , and then herself handed me the refreshments .
I rose ; I dressed myself with care : obliged to be plain -- for I had no article of attire that was not made with extreme simplicity -- I was still by nature solicitous to be neat .
The present Mr. Rochester 's mother was a Fairfax , and second cousin to my husband : but I never presume on the connection -- in fact , it is nothing to me ; I consider myself quite in the light of an ordinary housekeeper : my employer is always civil , and I expect nothing more . "
Fortunately I had had the advantage of being taught French by a French lady ; and as I had always made a point of conversing with Madame Pierrot as often as I could , and had besides , during the last seven years , learnt a portion of French by heart daily -- applying myself to take pains with my accent , and imitating as closely as possible the pronunciation of my teacher , I had acquired a certain degree of readiness and correctness in the language , and was not likely to be much at a loss with Mademoiselle Adela .
Descending from her chair , she came and placed herself on my knee ; then , folding her little hands demurely before her , shaking back her curls and lifting her eyes to the ceiling , she commenced singing a song from some opera .
I then proposed to occupy myself till dinner-time in drawing some little sketches for her use .
Women are supposed to be very calm generally : but women feel just as men feel ; they need exercise for their faculties , and a field for their efforts , as much as their brothers do ; they suffer from too rigid a restraint , too absolute a stagnation , precisely as men would suffer ; and it is narrow-minded in their more privileged fellow-creatures to say that they ought to confine themselves to making puddings and knitting stockings , to playing on the piano and embroidering bags .
I obeyed him , and walked down to the traveller , by this time struggling himself free of his steed .
We obeyed , as in duty bound ; Adele wanted to take a seat on my knee , but she was ordered to amuse herself with Pilot .
`` Do n't trouble yourself to give her a character , '' returned Mr. Rochester : " eulogiums will not bias me ; I shall judge for myself .
`` Yes , there is your ' boite ' at last : take it into a corner , you genuine daughter of Paris , and amuse yourself with disembowelling it , '' said the deep and rather sarcastic voice of Mr. Rochester , proceeding from the depths of an immense easy-chair at the fireside .
Accordingly I sat and said nothing : `` If he expects me to talk for the mere sake of talking and showing off , he will find he has addressed himself to the wrong person , '' I thought .
The fact is , once for all , I do n't wish to treat you like an inferior : that is `` ( correcting himself ) , '' I claim only such superiority as must result from twenty years ' difference in age and a century 's advance in experience .
I smiled : I thought to myself Mr. Rochester _ is _ peculiar -- he seems to forget that he pays me 30 pounds per annum for receiving his orders .
`` I was thinking , sir , that very few masters would trouble themselves to inquire whether or not their paid subordinates were piqued and hurt by their orders . ''
Do you wonder that I avow this to you ? Know , that in the course of your future life you will often find yourself elected the involuntary confidant of your acquaintances ' secrets : people will instinctively find out , as I have done , that it is not your forte to tell of yourself , but to listen while others talk of themselves ; they will feel , too , that you listen with no malevolent scorn of their indiscretion , but with a kind of innate sympathy ; not the less comforting and encouraging because it is very unobtrusive in its manifestations . "
Now , when any vicious simpleton excites my disgust by his paltry ribaldry , I can not flatter myself that I am better than he : I am forced to confess that he and I are on a level .
" Not at all -- it bears the most gracious message in the world : for the rest , you are not my conscience-keeper , so do n't make yourself uneasy .
You seem to doubt me ; I do n't doubt myself : I know what my aim is , what my motives are ; and at this moment I pass a law , unalterable as that of the Medes and Persians , that both are right . "
Do n't trouble yourself to answer -- I see you laugh rarely ; but you can laugh very merrily : believe me , you are not naturally austere , any more than I am naturally vicious .
He thought himself her idol , ugly as he was : he believed , as he said , that she preferred his `` _ taille d 'athlete _ '' to the elegance of the Apollo Belvidere .
I was just beginning to stifle with the fumes of conservatory flowers and sprinkled essences , when I bethought myself to open the window and step out on to the balcony .
I asked myself . " What alienates him from the house ?
Though it was now dark , I knew he was awake ; because I heard him fulminating strange anathemas at finding himself lying in a pool of water .
Meantime , I am glad that you are the only person , besides myself , acquainted with the precise details of to-night 's incident .
I bethought myself of an expedient . `` I think I hear Mrs. Fairfax move , sir , '' said I.
I compared myself with her , and found we were different .
That a greater fool than Jane Eyre had never breathed the breath of life ; that a more fantastic idiot had never surfeited herself on sweet lies , and swallowed poison as if it were nectar .
Ere long , I had reason to congratulate myself on the course of wholesome discipline to which I had thus forced my feelings to submit .
I was actually permitting myself to experience a sickening sense of disappointment ; but rallying my wits , and recollecting my principles , I at once called my sensations to order ; and it was wonderful how I got over the temporary blunder -- how I cleared up the mistake of supposing Mr. Rochester 's movements a matter in which I had any cause to take a vital interest .
Not that I humbled myself by a slavish notion of inferiority : on the contrary , I just said -- " You have nothing to do with the master of Thornfield , further than to receive the salary he gives you for teaching his protegee , and to be grateful for such respectful and kind treatment as , if you do your duty , you have a right to expect at his hands .
Ere I permitted myself to request an explanation , I tied the string of Adele 's pinafore , which happened to be loose : having helped her also to another bun and refilled her mug with milk , I said , nonchalantly --
Some of them threw themselves in half-reclining positions on the sofas and ottomans : some bent over the tables and examined the flowers and books : the rest gathered in a group round the fire : all talked in a low but clear tone which seemed habitual to them .
Did I forbid myself to think of him in any other light than as a paymaster ?
Miss Ingram , who had now seated herself with proud grace at the piano , spreading out her snowy robes in queenly amplitude , commenced a brilliant prelude ; talking meantime .
Miss Ingram placed herself at her leader 's right hand ; the other diviners filled the chairs on each side of him and her .
What charade Colonel Dent and his party played , what word they chose , how they acquitted themselves , I no longer remember ; but I still see the consultation which followed each scene : I see Mr. Rochester turn to Miss Ingram , and Miss Ingram to him ; I see her incline her head towards him , till the jetty curls almost touch his shoulder and wave against his cheek ; I hear their mutual whisperings ; I recall their interchanged glances ; and something even of the feeling roused by the spectacle returns in memory at this moment .
But as matters really stood , to watch Miss Ingram 's efforts at fascinating Mr. Rochester , to witness their repeated failure -- herself unconscious that they did fail ; vainly fancying that each shaft launched hit the mark , and infatuatedly pluming herself on success , when her pride and self-complacency repelled further and further what she wished to allure -- to witness _ this _ , was to be at once under ceaseless excitation and ruthless restraint .
I asked myself . " Surely she can not truly like him , or not like him with true affection !
Blanche Ingram , after having repelled , by supercilious taciturnity , some efforts of Mrs. Dent and Mrs. Eshton to draw her into conversation , had first murmured over some sentimental tunes and airs on the piano , and then , having fetched a novel from the library , had flung herself in haughty listlessness on a sofa , and prepared to beguile , by the spell of fiction , the tedious hours of absence .
`` It appears I come at an inopportune time , madam , '' said he , `` when my friend , Mr. Rochester , is from home ; but I arrive from a very long journey , and I think I may presume so far on old and intimate acquaintance as to instal myself here till he returns . ''
`` Tell her she shall be put in the stocks if she does not take herself off , '' replied the magistrate .
`` I do n't care about it , mother ; you may please yourself : but I ought to warn you , I have no faith . ''
" Ah ! you think yourself sharp .
So far I have governed myself thoroughly .
I knew gipsies and fortune-tellers did not express themselves as this seeming old woman had expressed herself ; besides I had noted her feigned voice , her anxiety to conceal her features .
`` No ; he said he had known you long , and that he could take the liberty of installing himself here till you returned . '' " The devil he did !
Calming himself by an effort , he added --
Not , however , to go to bed : on the contrary , I began and dressed myself carefully .
`` I shall have to leave you in this room with this gentleman , for an hour , or perhaps two hours : you will sponge the blood as I do when it returns : if he feels faint , you will put the glass of water on that stand to his lips , and your salts to his nose . You will not speak to him on any pretext -- and -- Richard , it will be at the peril of your life if you speak to her : open your lips -- agitate yourself -- and I 'll not answer for the consequences . ''
" Well then , Jane , call to aid your fancy : -- suppose you were no longer a girl well reared and disciplined , but a wild boy indulged from childhood upwards ; imagine yourself in a remote foreign land ; conceive that you there commit a capital error , no matter of what nature or from what motives , but one whose consequences must follow you through life and taint all your existence .
I have myself -- I tell it you without parable -- been a worldly , dissipated , restless man ; and I believe I have found the instrument for my cure in -- "
`` Why , you see , Miss Eyre , it is not a common mishap : his life has been very wild : these last three years he gave himself up to strange ways , and his death was shocking . ''
How he died , God knows ! -- they say he killed himself . "
" John Reed is dead , too , sir : he ruined himself and half-ruined his family , and is supposed to have committed suicide .
`` How long is he going to stand with his back against that door ? '' I asked myself ; `` I want to commence my packing . ''
Will you rest yourself here an hour , Miss , and then I will go up with you ? "
I had taken a journey of a hundred miles to see my aunt , and I must stay with her till she was better -- or dead : as to her daughters ' pride or folly , I must put it on one side , make myself independent of it .
Provided with a case of pencils , and some sheets of paper , I used to take a seat apart from them , near the window , and busy myself in sketching fancy vignettes , representing any scene that happened momentarily to shape itself in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of imagination : a glimpse of sea between two rocks ; the rising moon , and a ship crossing its disk ; a group of reeds and water-flags , and a naiad 's head , crowned with lotus- flowers , rising out of them ; an elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow 's nest , under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom .
She had an alarm to call her up early . I know not how she occupied herself before breakfast , but after that meal she divided her time into regular portions , and each hour had its allotted task .
You need not think that because we chanced to be born of the same parents , I shall suffer you to fasten me down by even the feeblest claim : I can tell you this -- if the whole human race , ourselves excepted , were swept away , and we two stood alone on the earth , I would leave you in the old world , and betake myself to the new . "
`` You might have spared yourself the trouble of delivering that tirade , '' answered Georgiana .
I bethought myself to go upstairs and see how the dying woman sped , who lay there almost unheeded : the very servants paid her but a remittent attention : the hired nurse , being little looked after , would slip out of the room whenever she could .
`` I am very ill , I know , '' she said ere long . " I was trying to turn myself a few minutes since , and find I can not move a limb .
`` After all , it is of no great importance , perhaps , '' she murmured to herself : `` and then I may get better ; and to humble myself so to her is painful . ''
I shall devote myself for a time to the examination of the Roman Catholic dogmas , and to a careful study of the workings of their system : if I find it to be , as I half suspect it is , the one best calculated to ensure the doing of all things decently and in order , I shall embrace the tenets of Rome and probably take the veil . "
Mrs. Fairfax surmised that he was gone to make arrangements for his wedding , as he had talked of purchasing a new carriage : she said the idea of his marrying Miss Ingram still seemed strange to her ; but from what everybody said , and from what she had herself seen , she could no longer doubt that the event would shortly take place .
I felt glad as the road shortened before me : so glad that I stopped once to ask myself what that joy meant : and to remind reason that it was not to my home I was going , or to a permanent resting-place , or to a place where fond friends looked out for me and waited my arrival .
And then I strangled a new-born agony -- a deformed thing which I could not persuade myself to own and rear -- and ran on .
`` Yes , sir , I will advertise immediately : and meantime , I suppose -- '' I was going to say , `` I suppose I may stay here , till I find another shelter to betake myself to : '' but I stopped , feeling it would not do to risk a long sentence , for my voice was not quite under command .
`` In about a month I hope to be a bridegroom , '' continued Mr. Rochester ; `` and in the interim , I shall myself look out for employment and an asylum for you . ''
I never go over to Ireland , not having myself much of a fancy for the country .
Still I did not answer , and still I writhed myself from his grasp : for I was still incredulous .
None : as I have taken pains to prove : I caused a rumour to reach her that my fortune was not a third of what was supposed , and after that I presented myself to see the result ; it was coldness both from her and her mother . I would not -- I could not -- marry Miss Ingram .
`` I will myself put the diamond chain round your neck , and the circlet on your forehead , -- which it will become : for nature , at least , has stamped her patent of nobility on this brow , Jane ; and I will clasp the bracelets on these fine wrists , and load these fairy-like fingers with rings . ''
`` I will make the world acknowledge you a beauty , too , '' he went on , while I really became uneasy at the strain he had adopted , because I felt he was either deluding himself or trying to delude me .
I would as soon see you , Mr. Rochester , tricked out in stage-trappings , as myself clad in a court-lady 's robe ; and I do n't call you handsome , sir , though I love you most dearly : far too dearly to flatter you .
After a brief stay there , I shall bear my treasure to regions nearer the sun : to French vineyards and Italian plains ; and she shall see whatever is famous in old story and in modern record : she shall taste , too , of the life of cities ; and she shall learn to value herself by just comparison with others . "
I loved him very much -- more than I could trust myself to say -- more than words had power to express .
Seeing me , she roused herself : she made a sort of effort to smile , and framed a few words of congratulation ; but the smile expired , and the sentence was abandoned unfinished .
I knew such an idea would shock , perhaps offend you ; and you were so discreet , and so thoroughly modest and sensible , I hoped you might be trusted to protect yourself .
Try and keep Mr. Rochester at a distance : distrust yourself as well as him .
`` She will want to warm herself : what will she do for a fire ? ''
By dint of entreaties expressed in energetic whispers , I reduced the half-dozen to two : these however , he vowed he would select himself .
" I 'll be preparing myself to go out as a missionary to preach liberty to them that are enslaved -- your harem inmates amongst the rest .
I 'll get admitted there , and I 'll stir up mutiny ; and you , three-tailed bashaw as you are , sir , shall in a trice find yourself fettered amongst our hands : nor will I , for one , consent to cut your bonds till you have signed a charter , the most liberal that despot ever yet conferred . "
Being pushed unceremoniously to one side -- which was precisely what I wished -- he usurped my place , and proceeded to accompany himself : for he could play as well as sing .
Here I heard myself apostrophised as a `` hard little thing ; '' and it was added , `` any other woman would have been melted to marrow at hearing such stanzas crooned in her praise . ''
Mr. Rochester had himself written the direction , `` Mrs. Rochester , -- - Hotel , London , '' on each : I could not persuade myself to affix them , or to have them affixed .
As I looked up at them , the moon appeared momentarily in that part of the sky which filled their fissure ; her disk was blood-red and half overcast ; she seemed to throw on me one bewildered , dreary glance , and buried herself again instantly in the deep drift of cloud .
Here and there I strayed through the orchard , gathered up the apples with which the grass round the tree roots was thickly strewn ; then I employed myself in dividing the ripe from the unripe ; I carried them into the house and put them away in the store-room .
I lingered ; the moon shut herself wholly within her chamber , and drew close her curtain of dense cloud : the night grew dark ; rain came driving fast on the gale .
He checked himself in his exultation to demand , " But is there anything the matter , Janet , that you come to meet me at such an hour ?
I thought how I would carry down to you the square of unembroidered blond I had myself prepared as a covering for my low-born head , and ask if that was not good enough for a woman who could bring her husband neither fortune , beauty , nor connections .
She seemed the emblem of my past life ; and here I was now to array myself to meet , the dread , but adored , type of my unknown future day .
Mr. Rochester heard , but heeded not : he stood stubborn and rigid , making no movement but to possess himself of my hand .
The house cleared , I shut myself in , fastened the bolt that none might intrude , and proceeded -- not to weep , not to mourn , I was yet too calm for that , but -- mechanically to take off the wedding dress , and replace it by the stuff gown I had worn yesterday , as I thought , for the last time .
`` No ; you shall tear yourself away , none shall help you : you shall yourself pluck out your right eye ; yourself cut off your right hand : your heart shall be the victim , and you the priest to transfix it . ''
I could not soon recover myself .
So you shun me ? -- you shut yourself up and grieve alone !
What do you say to that ? I see you can say nothing in the first place , you are faint still , and have enough to do to draw your breath ; in the second place , you can not yet accustom yourself to accuse and revile me , and besides , the flood-gates of tears are opened , and they would rush out if you spoke much ; and you have no desire to expostulate , to upbraid , to make a scene : you are thinking how _ to act _ -- _ talking _ you consider is of no use . I know you -- I am on my guard . "
You intend to make yourself a complete stranger to me : to live under this roof only as Adele 's governess ; if ever I say a friendly word to you , if ever a friendly feeling inclines you again to me , you will say , -- ' That man had nearly made me his mistress : I must be ice and rock to him ; ' and ice and rock you will accordingly become . "
when I found that I could not pass a single evening , nor even a single hour of the day with her in comfort ; that kindly conversation could not be sustained between us , because whatever topic I started , immediately received from her a turn at once coarse and trite , perverse and imbecile -- when I perceived that I should never have a quiet or settled household , because no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her violent and unreasonable temper , or the vexations of her absurd , contradictory , exacting orders -- even then I restrained myself : I eschewed upbraiding , I curtailed remonstrance ; I tried to devour my repentance and disgust in secret ; I repressed the deep antipathy I felt .
And I could not rid myself of it by any legal proceedings : for the doctors now discovered that _ my wife _ was mad -- her excesses had prematurely developed the germs of insanity .
In the eyes of the world , I was doubtless covered with grimy dishonour ; but I resolved to be clean in my own sight -- and to the last I repudiated the contamination of her crimes , and wrenched myself from connection with her mental defects .
I have a right to deliver myself from it if I can .
" I said this whilst I knelt down at , and unlocked a trunk which contained a brace of loaded pistols : I mean to shoot myself .
You may take the maniac with you to England ; confine her with due attendance and precautions at Thornfield : then travel yourself to what clime you will , and form what new tie you like .
The lunatic is both cunning and malignant ; she has never failed to take advantage of her guardian 's temporary lapses ; once to secrete the knife with which she stabbed her brother , and twice to possess herself of the key of her cell , and issue therefrom in the night-time .
I transformed myself into a will-o ' -the-wisp .
I felt the truth of these words ; and I drew from them the certain inference , that if I were so far to forget myself and all the teaching that had ever been instilled into me , as -- under any pretext -- with any justification -- through any temptation -- to become the successor of these poor girls , he would one day regard me with the same feeling which now in his mind desecrated their memory .
When at last she left you , you lapsed at once into deep reverie : you betook yourself slowly to pace the gallery .
Your garb and manner were restricted by rule ; your air was often diffident , and altogether that of one refined by nature , but absolutely unused to society , and a good deal afraid of making herself disadvantageously conspicuous by some solecism or blunder ; yet when addressed , you lifted a keen , a daring , and a glowing eye to your interlocutor 's face : there was penetration and power in each glance you gave ; when plied by close questions , you found ready and round answers .
I permitted myself the delight of being kind to you ; kindness stirred emotion soon : your face became soft in expression , your tones gentle ; I liked my name pronounced by your lips in a grateful happy accent .
`` I do , '' extricating myself from restraint rapidly and completely .
The more solitary , the more friendless , the more unsustained I am , the more I will respect myself .
Conqueror I might be of the house ; but the inmate would escape to heaven before I could call myself possessor of its clay dwelling-place .
He turned away ; he threw himself on his face on the sofa .
He would feel himself forsaken ; his love rejected : he would suffer ; perhaps grow desperate .
In the midst of my pain of heart and frantic effort of principle , I abhorred myself .
It is the clergyman 's function to help -- at least with advice -- those who wished to help themselves .
And why can not I reconcile myself to the prospect of death ?
I began once more to know myself ; and when Mr. St. John demanded an account -- which at present I was far too weak to render -- I said after a brief pause --
After a weary process , and resting every five minutes , I succeeded in dressing myself .
`` Whatever can not ye keep yourself for , then ? ''
" I have kept myself ; and , I trust , shall keep myself again .
I feel more inclination to put you in the way of keeping yourself , and shall endeavour to do so ; but observe , my sphere is narrow .
Often , of an evening , when he sat at the window , his desk and papers before him , he would cease reading or writing , rest his chin on his hand , and deliver himself up to I know not what course of thought ; but that it was perturbed and exciting might be seen in the frequent flash and changeful dilation of his eye .
`` Yes ; I wish to know whether you have heard of any service I can offer myself to undertake ? ''
I am obscure : Rivers is an old name ; but of the three sole descendants of the race , two earn the dependant 's crust among strangers , and the third considers himself an alien from his native country -- not only for life , but in death .
" And since I am myself poor and obscure , I can offer you but a service of poverty and obscurity . _ You _ may even think it degrading -- for I see now your habits have been what the world calls refined : your tastes lean to the ideal , and your society has at least been amongst the educated ; but _ I _ consider that no service degrades which can better our race .
I shall leave the place probably in the course of a twelve-month ; but while I do stay , I will exert myself to the utmost for its improvement .
You hear now how I contradict myself .
Mary and I would have esteemed ourselves rich with a thousand pounds each ; and to St. John such a sum would have been valuable , for the good it would have enabled him to do . "
Not to deceive myself , I must reply -- No : I felt desolate to a degree .
But let me not hate and despise myself too much for these feelings ; I know them to be wrong -- that is a great step gained ; I shall strive to overcome them .
Meantime , let me ask myself one question -- Which is better ? -- To have surrendered to temptation ; listened to passion ; made no painful effort -- no struggle ; -- but to have sunk down in the silken snare ; fallen asleep on the flowers covering it ; wakened in a southern clime , amongst the luxuries of a pleasure villa : to have been now living in France , Mr. Rochester 's mistress ; delirious with his love half my time -- for he would -- oh , yes , he would have loved me well for a while .
While I looked , I thought myself happy , and was surprised to find myself ere long weeping -- and why ?
I naturally asked myself that question as I saw him turn to her and look at her ; and , as naturally , I sought the answer to the inquiry in his countenance .
There was a difference amongst them as amongst the educated ; and when I got to know them , and they me , this difference rapidly developed itself .
Many showed themselves obliging , and amiable too ; and I discovered amongst them not a few examples of natural politeness , and innate self-respect , as well as of excellent capacity , that won both my goodwill and my admiration .
I promised myself the pleasure of colouring it ; and , as it was getting late then , I told her she must come and sit another day .
I had also made myself neat , and had now the afternoon before me to spend as I would .
`` With all his firmness and self-control , '' thought I , " he tasks himself too far : locks every feeling and pang within -- expresses , confesses , imparts nothing .
And now it is deluged with a nectarous flood -- the young germs swamped -- delicious poison cankering them : now I see myself stretched on an ottoman in the drawing-room at Vale Hall at my bride Rosamond Oliver 's feet : she is talking to me with her sweet voice -- gazing down on me with those eyes your skilful hand has copied so well -- smiling at me with these coral lips .
When I colour , and when I shade before Miss Oliver , I do not pity myself .
`` You would describe yourself as a mere pagan philosopher , '' I said .
I bethought myself to talk about the school and my scholars .
Mrs. Reed kept the orphan ten years : whether it was happy or not with her , I can not say , never having been told ; but at the end of that time she transferred it to a place you know -- being no other than Lowood School , where you so long resided yourself .
One does not jump , and spring , and shout hurrah ! at hearing one has got a fortune ; one begins to consider responsibilities , and to ponder business ; on a base of steady satisfaction rise certain grave cares , and we contain ourselves , and brood over our bliss with a solemn brow .
`` No ; to-night ! -- to-night ! '' and as he turned from the door , I placed myself between it and him .
I stopped : I could not trust myself to entertain , much less to express , the thought that rushed upon me -- that embodied itself , -- that , in a second , stood out a strong , solid probability .
Circumstances knit themselves , fitted themselves , shot into order : the chain that had been lying hitherto a formless lump of links was drawn out straight , -- every ring was perfect , the connection complete .
Diana said they would both consider themselves rich with a thousand pounds , so with five thousand they will do very well . "
`` Perhaps , if you explained yourself a little more fully , I should comprehend better . ''
I like Moor House , and I will live at Moor House ; I like Diana and Mary , and I will attach myself for life to Diana and Mary .
" Jane , I excuse you for the present : two months ' grace I allow you for the full enjoyment of your new position , and for pleasing yourself with this late-found charm of relationship ; but _ then _ , I hope you will begin to look beyond Moor House and Morton , and sisterly society , and the selfish calm and sensual comfort of civilised affluence .
And try to restrain the disproportionate fervour with which you throw yourself into commonplace home pleasures .
I comprehended how he should despise himself for the feverish influence it exercised over him ; how he should wish to stifle and destroy it ; how he should mistrust its ever conducting permanently to his happiness or hers .
As I exchanged a translation for an exercise , I happened to look his way : there I found myself under the influence of the ever-watchful blue eye .
As for me , I daily wished more to please him ; but to do so , I felt daily more and more that I must disown half my nature , stifle half my faculties , wrest my tastes from their original bent , force myself to the adoption of pursuits for which I had no natural vocation .
Or who , that ever was truly called , believed himself worthy of the summons ?
With St. Paul , I acknowledge myself the chiefest of sinners ; but I do not suffer this sense of my personal vileness to daunt me .
Jane , you are docile , diligent , disinterested , faithful , constant , and courageous ; very gentle , and very heroic : cease to mistrust yourself -- I can trust you unreservedly .
My work , which had appeared so vague , so hopelessly diffuse , condensed itself as he proceeded , and assumed a definite form under his shaping hand .
`` Very willingly , '' he rejoined ; and rising , he strode a little distance up the pass , threw himself down on a swell of heath , and there lay still .
But as it is , either our union must be consecrated and sealed by marriage , or it can not exist : practical obstacles oppose themselves to any other plan .
I said briefly ; and I looked at his features , beautiful in their harmony , but strangely formidable in their still severity ; at his brow , commanding but not open ; at his eyes , bright and deep and searching , but never soft ; at his tall imposing figure ; and fancied myself in idea _ his wife _ .
Refuse to be my wife , and you limit yourself for ever to a track of selfish ease and barren obscurity .
St. John -- you know him -- would urge you to impossibilities : with him there would be no permission to rest during the hot hours ; and unfortunately , I have noticed , whatever he exacts , you force yourself to perform .
`` I must indeed , '' I said ; " for when just now I repeated the offer of serving him for a deacon , he expressed himself shocked at my want of decency .
" You should hear himself on the subject .
I mounted to my chamber ; locked myself in ; fell on my knees ; and prayed in my way -- a different way to St. John 's , but effective in its own fashion . I seemed to penetrate very near a Mighty Spirit ; and my soul rushed out in gratitude at His feet .
I busied myself for an hour or two with arranging my things in my chamber , drawers , and wardrobe , in the order wherein I should wish to leave them during a brief absence .
The suggestion was sensible , and yet I could not force myself to act on it .
The host himself brought my breakfast into the parlour .
It is excusable , for she had a hard life of it : but still it was dangerous ; for when Mrs. Poole was fast asleep after the gin and water , the mad lady , who was as cunning as a witch , would take the keys out of her pocket , let herself out of her chamber , and go roaming about the house , doing any wild mischief that came into her head .
He broke off acquaintance with all the gentry , and shut himself up like a hermit at the Hall . "
As he came down the great staircase at last , after Mrs. Rochester had flung herself from the battlements , there was a great crash -- all fell .
Iron gates between granite pillars showed me where to enter , and passing through them , I found myself at once in the twilight of close-ranked trees .
He suddenly seemed to arouse himself : the conviction of the reality of all this seized him .
`` But as you are rich , Jane , you have now , no doubt , friends who will look after you , and not suffer you to devote yourself to a blind lameter like me ? ''
But no hint to that effect escaping him and his countenance becoming more overcast , I suddenly remembered that I might have been all wrong , and was perhaps playing the fool unwittingly ; and I began gently to withdraw myself from his arms -- but he eagerly snatched me closer .
But I would not be lachrymose : I dashed off the salt drops , and busied myself with preparing breakfast .
Violent as he had seemed in his despair , he , in truth , loved me far too well and too tenderly to constitute himself my tyrant : he would have given me half his fortune , without demanding so much as a kiss in return , rather than I should have flung myself friendless on the wide world .
I hold myself supremely blest -- blest beyond what language can express ; because I am my husband 's life as fully as he is mine .
His is the exaction of the apostle , who speaks but for Christ , when he says -- `` Whosoever will come after me , let him deny himself , and take up his cross and follow me . '' His is the ambition of the high master-spirit , which aims to fill a place in the first rank of those who are redeemed from the earth -- who stand without fault before the throne of God , who share the last mighty victories of the Lamb , who are called , and chosen , and faithful .
Himself has hitherto sufficed to the toil , and the toil draws near its close : his glorious sun hastens to its setting .
The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way , and then dipped suddenly down , so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well .
There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ' Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it 's getting ! ' She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she found herself in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
After a while , finding that nothing more happened , she decided on going into the garden at once ; but , alas for poor Alice ! when she got to the door , she found she had forgotten the little golden key , and when she went back to the table for it , she found she could not possibly reach it : she could see it quite plainly through the glass , and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table , but it was too slippery ; and when she had tired herself out with trying , the poor little thing sat down and cried .
' Come , there 's no use in crying like that ! ' said Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute ! ' She generally gave herself very good advice , ( though she very seldom followed it ) , and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes ; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself , for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people .
I 'm sure I sha n't be able ! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you : you must manage the best way you can ; -- but I must be kind to them , ' thought Alice , ' or perhaps they wo n't walk the way I want to go !
Alice took up the fan and gloves , and , as the hall was very hot , she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking : ' Dear , dear ! How queer everything is to-day !
' I must be growing small again . ' She got up and went to the table to measure herself by it , and found that , as nearly as she could guess , she was now about two feet high , and was going on shrinking rapidly : she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding , and she dropped it hastily , just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether .
' That was a narrow escape ! ' said Alice , a good deal frightened at the sudden change , but very glad to find herself still in existence ; ' and now for the garden ! ' and she ran with all speed back to the little door : but , alas ! the little door was shut again , and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before , ' and things are worse than ever , ' thought the poor child , ' for I never was so small as this before , never !
The first question of course was , how to get dry again : they had a consultation about this , and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them , as if she had known them all her life .
There was exactly one a-piece all round . ' But she must have a prize herself , you know , ' said the Mouse .
' A knot ! ' said Alice , always ready to make herself useful , and looking anxiously about her .
Some of the birds hurried off at once : one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully , remarking , ' I really must be getting home ; the night-air does n't suit my throat ! ' and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to its children , ' Come away , my dears ! It 's high time you were all in bed ! '
Oh , I should n't like that ! " Oh , you foolish Alice ! ' she answered herself . ' How can you learn lessons in here ?
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared ; but she ran off as hard as she could , and soon found herself safe in a thick wood .
Hardly knowing what she did , she picked up a little bit of stick , and held it out to the puppy ; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once , with a yelp of delight , and rushed at the stick , and made believe to worry it ; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle , to keep herself from being run over ; and the moment she appeared on the other side , the puppy made another rush at the stick , and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it ; then Alice , thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse , and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet , ran round the thistle again ; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick , running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back , and barking hoarsely all the while , till at last it sat down a good way off , panting , with its tongue hanging out of its mouth , and its great eyes half shut .
' And yet what a dear little puppy it was ! ' said Alice , as she leant against a buttercup to rest herself , and fanned herself with one of the leaves : ' I should have liked teaching it tricks very much , if -- if I 'd only been the right size to do it !
She stretched herself up on tiptoe , and peeped over the edge of the mushroom , and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar , that was sitting on the top with its arms folded , quietly smoking a long hookah , and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else .
' What do you mean by that ? ' said the Caterpillar sternly . ' Explain yourself ! '
' I ca n't explain myself , I 'm afraid , sir ' said Alice , ' because I 'm not myself , you see . '
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar 's making such very short remarks , and she drew herself up and said , very gravely , ' I think , you ought to tell me who you are , first . '
' I have answered three questions , and that is enough , ' Said his father ; ' do n't give yourself airs ! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff ?
' It is a very good height indeed ! ' said the Caterpillar angrily , rearing itself upright as it spoke ( it was exactly three inches high ) .
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice , and shook itself .
After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands , and she set to work very carefully , nibbling first at one and then at the other , and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter , until she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height .
' Whoever lives there , ' thought Alice , ' it 'll never do to come upon them this size : why , I should frighten them out of their wits ! ' So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again , and did not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high .
The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it , and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it was as much as she could do to hold it .
As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it , ( which was to twist it up into a sort of knot , and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot , so as to prevent its undoing itself , ) she carried it out into the open air . ' If I do n't take this child away with me , ' thought Alice , ' they 're sure to kill it in a day or two : would n't it be murder to leave it behind ? '
It was so large a house , that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom , and raised herself to about two feet high : even then she walked up towards it rather timidly , saying to herself ' Suppose it should be raving mad after all !
The Dormouse shook its head impatiently , and said , without opening its eyes , ' Of course , of course ; just what I was going to remark myself . '
Here the Dormouse shook itself , and began singing in its sleep ' Twinkle , twinkle , twinkle , twinkle -- ' and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop .
Alice did not quite know what to say to this : so she helped herself to some tea and bread-and-butter , and then turned to the Dormouse , and repeated her question . ' Why did they live at the bottom of a well ? '
Once more she found herself in the long hall , and close to the little glass table . ' Now , I 'll manage better this time , ' she said to herself , and began by taking the little golden key , and unlocking the door that led into the garden .
Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom ( she had kept a piece of it in her pocket ) till she was about a foot high : then she walked down the little passage : and then -- she found herself at last in the beautiful garden , among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains .
Seven flung down his brush , and had just begun ' Well , of all the unjust things -- ' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice , as she stood watching them , and he checked himself suddenly : the others looked round also , and all of them bowed low .
So you see , Miss , we 're doing our best , afore she comes , to -- ' At this moment Five , who had been anxiously looking across the garden , called out ' The Queen ! The Queen ! ' and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces .
He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke , and then raised himself upon tiptoe , put his mouth close to her ear , and whispered ' She 's under sentence of execution . '
Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life ; it was all ridges and furrows ; the balls were live hedgehogs , the mallets live flamingoes , and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet , to make the arches .
The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo : she succeeded in getting its body tucked away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with its legs hanging down , but generally , just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out , and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head , it would twist itself round and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing : and when she had got its head down , and was going to begin again , it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself , and was in the act of crawling away : besides all this , there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to , and , as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground , Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed .
' I do n't think they play at all fairly , ' Alice began , in rather a complaining tone , ' and they all quarrel so dreadfully one ca n't hear oneself speak -- and they do n't seem to have any rules in particular ; at least , if there are , nobody attends to them -- and you 've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive ; for instance , there 's the arch I 've got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground -- and I should have croqueted the Queen 's hedgehog just now , only it ran away when it saw mine coming ! '
' Everything 's got a moral , if only you can find it . ' And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice 's side as she spoke .
' I quite agree with you , ' said the Duchess ; ' and the moral of that is -- `` Be what you would seem to be '' -- or if you 'd like it put more simply -- `` Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise . '' '
' Pray do n't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that , ' said Alice .
' You may not have lived much under the sea -- ' ( ' I have n't , ' said Alice ) -- ' and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster -- ' ( Alice began to say ' I once tasted -- ' but checked herself hastily , and said ' No , never ' )
' Yes , ' said Alice , ' I 've often seen them at dinn -- ' she checked herself hastily .
At this the whole pack rose up into the air , and came flying down upon her : she gave a little scream , half of fright and half of anger , and tried to beat them off , and found herself lying on the bank , with her head in the lap of her sister , who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face .
So she sat on , with closed eyes , and half believed herself in Wonderland , though she knew she had but to open them again , and all would change to dull reality -- the grass would be only rustling in the wind , and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds -- the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells , and the Queen 's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy -- and the sneeze of the baby , the shriek of the Gryphon , and all the other queer noises , would change ( she knew ) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard -- while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle 's heavy sobs .
For two hundred francs a year he managed to live on the border of the provinces of Caux and Picardy , in a kind of place half farm , half private house ; and here , soured , eaten up with regrets , cursing his luck , jealous of everyone , he shut himself up at the age of forty-five , sick of men , he said , and determined to live at peace .
She called on the lawyers , the president , remembered when bills fell due , got them renewed , and at home ironed , sewed , washed , looked after the workmen , paid the accounts , while he , troubling himself about nothing , eternally besotted in sleepy sulkiness , whence he only roused himself to say disagreeable things to her , sat smoking by the fire and spitting into the cinders .
To shut himself up every evening in the dirty public room , to push about on marble tables the small sheep bones with black dots , seemed to him a fine proof of his freedom , which raised him in his own esteem .
Still sleepy from the warmth of his bed , he let himself be lulled by the quiet trot of his horse .
By his side on a chair stood a large decanter of brandy , whence he poured himself a little from time to time to keep up his spirits ; but as soon as he caught sight of the doctor his elation subsided , and instead of swearing , as he had been doing for the last twelve hours , began to groan freely .
She drew herself up , scarlet , and looked at him over her shoulder as she handed him his whip .
As to Charles , he did not stop to ask himself why it was a pleasure to him to go to the Bertaux . Had he done so , he would , no doubt , have attributed his zeal to the importance of the case , or perhaps to the money he hoped to make by it . Was it for this , however , that his visits to the farm formed a delightful exception to the meagre occupations of his life ? On these days he rose early , set off at a gallop , urging on his horse , then got down to wipe his boots in the grass and put on black gloves before entering . He liked going into the courtyard , and noticing the gate turn against his shoulder , the cock crow on the wall , the lads run to meet him . He liked the granary and the stables ; he liked old Rouault , who pressed his hand and called him his saviour ; he like the small wooden shoes of Mademoiselle Emma on the scoured flags of the kitchen - her high heels made her a little taller ; and when she walked in front of him , the wooden soles springing up quickly struck with a sharp sound against the leather of her boots .
At first she solaced herself by allusions that Charles did not understand , then by casual observations that he let pass for fear of a storm , finally by open apostrophes to which he knew not what to answer .
It is not worth while making such a fuss , or showing herself at church on Sundays in a silk gown like a countess .
`` I know what it is , '' said he , clapping him on the shoulder ; `` I 've been through it . When I lost my dear departed , I went into the fields to be quite alone . I fell at the foot of a tree ; I cried ; I called on God ; I talked nonsense to Him . I wanted to be like the moles that I saw on the branches , their insides swarming with worms , dead , and an end of it . And when I thought that there were others at that very moment with their nice little wives holding them in their embrace , I struck great blows on the earth with my stick . I was pretty well mad with not eating ; the very idea of going to a cafe disgusted me - you would n't believe it . Well , quite softly , one day following another , a spring on a winter , and an autumn after a summer , this wore away , piece by piece , crumb by crumb ; it passed away , it is gone , I should say it has sunk ; for something always remains at the bottom as one would say - a weight here , at one 's heart . But since it is the lot of all of us , one must not give way altogether , and , because others have died , want to die too . You must pull yourself together , Monsieur Bovary . It will pass away . Come to see us ; my daughter thinks of you now and again , do you know , and she says you are forgetting her . Spring will soon be here . We 'll have some rabbit-shooting in the warrens to amuse you a bit . ''
Charles found himself laughing , but the remembrance of his wife suddenly coming back to him depressed him .
He could now change his meal-times , go in or out without explanation , and when he was very tired stretch himself at full length on his bed .
So he nursed and coddled himself and accepted the consolations that were offered him .
He had an aimless hope , and was vaguely happy ; he thought himself better looking as he brushed his whiskers before the looking-glass .
Some flies on the table were crawling up the glasses that had been used , and buzzing as they drowned themselves in the dregs of the cider .
But he never saw her in his thoughts other than he had seen her the first time , or as he had just left her . Then he asked himself what would become of her - if she would be married , and to whom !
Thinking that , after all , he should lose nothing , Charles promised himself to ask her in marriage as soon as occasion offered , but each time such occasion did offer the fear of not finding the right words sealed his lips .
Charles gave himself as far as to the corner of the hedge , and at last , when past it -
Emma blushed as he entered , and she gave a little forced laugh to keep herself in countenance .
Part of it was ordered at Rouen , and she made herself chemises and nightcaps after fashion-plates that she borrowed .
Then came the married pair , the relations , the friends , all following pell-mell ; the children stayed behind amusing themselves plucking the bell-flowers from oat-ears , or playing amongst themselves unseen .
To begin with , at its base there was a square of blue cardboard , representing a temple with porticoes , colonnades , and stucco statuettes all round , and in the niches constellations of gilt paper stars ; then on the second stage was a dungeon of Savoy cake , surrounded by many fortifications in candied angelica , almonds , raisins , and quarters of oranges ; and finally , on the upper platform a green field with rocks set in lakes of jam , nutshell boats , and a small Cupid balancing himself in a chocolate swing whose two uprights ended in real roses for balls at the top .
In his heart he accused old Rouault of being proud , and he joined four or five other guests in a corner , who having , through mere chance , been several times running served with the worst helps of meat , also were of opinion they had been badly used , and were whispering about their host , and with covered hints hoping he would ruin himself .
Old Rouault had them driven back in his cart , and himself accompanied them as far as Vassonville . Here he embraced his daughter for the last time , got down , and went his way .
The old servant presented herself , curtsied to her , apologised for not having dinner ready , and suggested that madame , in the meantime , should look over her house .
During the first days she occupied herself in thinking about changes in the house .
His own eyes lost themselves in these depths ; he saw himself in miniature down to the shoulders , with his handkerchief round his head and the top of his shirt open .
For him the universe did not extend beyond the circumference of her petticoat , and he reproached himself with not loving her .
Before marriage she thought herself in love ; but the happiness that should have followed this love not having come , she must , she thought , have been mistaken .
When she was thirteen , her father himself took her to town to place her in the convent .
She told stories , gave them news , went errands in the town , and on the sly lent the big girls some novel , that she always carried in the pockets of her apron , and of which the good lady herself swallowed long chapters in the intervals of her work .
She let herself glide along with Lamartine meanderings , listened to harps on lakes , to all the songs of dying swans , to the falling of the leaves , the pure virgins ascending to heaven , and the voice of the Eternal discoursing down the valleys . She wearied of it , would not confess it , continued from habit , and at last was surprised to feel herself soothed , and with no more sadness at heart than wrinkles on her brow .
And yet , in accord with theories she believed right , she wanted to make herself in love with him .
By moonlight in the garden she recited all the passionate rhymes she knew by heart , and , sighing , sang to him many melancholy adagios ; but she found herself as calm after as before , and Charles seemed no more amorous and no more moved .
When she had thus for a while struck the flint on her heart without getting a spark , incapable , moreover , of understanding what she did not experience as of believing anything that did not present itself in conventional forms , she persuaded herself without difficulty that Charles 's passion was nothing very exorbitant .
She asked herself if by some other chance combination it would have not been possible to meet another man ; and she tried to imagine what would have been these unrealised events , this different life , this unknown husband .
A fear took hold of her ; she called Djali , and hurriedly returned to Tostes by the high road , threw herself into an armchair , and for the rest of the evening did not speak .
The Marquis opened the drawing room door ; one of the ladies ( the Marchioness herself ) came to meet Emma .
Emma , on entering , felt herself wrapped round by the warm air , a blending of the perfume of flowers and of the fine linen , of the fumes of the viands , and the odour of the truffles . The silver dish covers reflected the lighted wax candles in the candelabra , the cut crystal covered with light steam reflected from one to the other pale rays ; bouquets were placed in a row the whole length of the table ; and in the large-bordered plates each napkin , arranged after the fashion of a bishop 's mitre , held between its two gaping folds a small oval shaped roll . The red claws of lobsters hung over the dishes ; rich fruit in open baskets was piled up on moss ; there were quails in their plumage ; smoke was rising ; and in silk stockings , knee-breeches , white cravat , and frilled shirt , the steward , grave as a judge , offering ready carved dishes between the shoulders of the guests , with a touch of the spoon gave you the piece chosen . On the large stove of porcelain inlaid with copper baguettes the statue of a woman , draped to the chin , gazed motionless on the room full of life .
She went downstairs restraining herself from running .
A few men ( some fifteen or so ) , of twenty-five to forty , scattered here and there among the dancers or talking at the doorways , distinguished themselves from the crowd by a certain air of breeding , whatever their differences in age , dress , or face .
She saw the farm again , the muddy pond , her father in a blouse under the apple trees , and she saw herself again as formerly , skimming with her finger the cream off the milk-pans in the dairy .
Charles dragged himself up by the balusters .
And she tried to keep herself awake in order to prolong the illusion of this luxurious life that she would soon have to give up .
`` Leave the room ! '' said Emma . " You are forgetting yourself .
Then they warmed themselves in the kitchen while their room was being made ready .
`` You 'll make yourself ill , '' she said scornfully .
Emma perceived only two or three that hid from her all the rest , and in themselves represented all humanity .
She had bought herself a blotting book , writing case , pen-holder , and envelopes , although she had no one to write to ; she dusted her what-not , looked at herself in the glass , picked up a book , and then , dreaming between the lines , let it drop on her knees .
But she was angered with shame ; she felt a wild desire to strike him ; she went to open the window in the passage and breathed in the fresh air to calm herself .
Since she could never , in a velvet gown with short sleeves , striking with her light fingers the ivory keys of an Erard at a concert , feel the murmur of ecstasy envelop her like a breeze , it was not worth while boring herself with practicing .
Charles was a slow eater ; she played with a few nuts , or , leaning on her elbow , amused herself with drawing lines along the oilcloth table cover with the point of her knife .
Towards the end of February old Rouault , in memory of his cure , himself brought his son-in-law a superb turkey , and stayed three days at Tostes .
Moreover she no longer concealed her contempt for anything or anybody , and at times she set herself to express singular opinions , finding fault with that which others approved , and approving things perverse and immoral , all of which made her husband open his eyes widely .
Yonville-l 'Abbaye ( so called from an old Capuchin abbey of which not even the ruins remain ) is a market-town twenty-four miles from Rouen , between the Abbeville and Beauvais roads , at the foot of a valley watered by the Rieule , a little river that runs into the Andelle after turning three water-mills near its mouth , where there are a few trout that the lads amuse themselves by fishing for on Sundays .
Clever at all games of cards , a good hunter , and writing a fine hand , he had at home a lathe , and amused himself by turning napkin rings , with which he filled up his house , with the jealousy of an artist and the egotism of a bourgeois .
And I ca n't admit of an old boy of a God who takes walks in his garden with a cane in his hand , who lodges his friends in the belly of whales , dies uttering a cry , and rises again at the end of three days ; things absurd in themselves , and completely opposed , moreover , to all physical laws , which prove to us , by the way , that priests have always wallowed in turpid ignorance , in which they would fain engulf the people with them . "
He ceased , looking round for an audience , for in his bubbling over the chemist had for a moment fancied himself in the midst of the town council .
Homais introduced himself ; he offered his homages to madame and his respects to monsieur ; said he was charmed to have been able to render them some slight service , and added with a cordial air that he had ventured to invite himself , his wife being away .
`` But , '' Leon went on , addressing himself to Madame Bovary , `` nothing , it seems to me , is more pleasant - when one can , '' he added .
`` Moreover , '' said the druggist , `` the practice of medicine is not very hard work in our part of the world , for the state of our roads allows us the use of gigs , and generally , as the farmers are prosperous , they pay pretty well . We have , medically speaking , besides the ordinary cases of enteritis , bronchitis , bilious affections , etc . , now and then a few intermittent fevers at harvest-time ; but on the whole , little of a serious nature , nothing special to note , unless it be a great deal of scrofula , due , no doubt , to the deplorable hygienic conditions of our peasant dwellings . Ah ! you will find many prejudices to combat , Monsieur Bovary , much obstinacy of routine , with which all the efforts of your science will daily come into collision ; for people still have recourse to novenas , to relics , to the priest , rather than come straight to the doctor or the chemist . The climate , however , is not , truth to tell , bad , and we even have a few nonagenarians in our parish . The thermometer ( I have made some observations ) falls in winter to 4 degrees Centigrade at the outside , which gives us 24 degrees Reaumur as the maximum , or otherwise 54 degrees Fahrenheit ( English scale ) , not more . And , as a matter of fact , we are sheltered from the north winds by the forest of Argueil on the one side , from the west winds by the St. Jean range on the other ; and this heat , moreover , which , on account of the aqueous vapours given off by the river and the considerable number of cattle in the fields , which , as you know , exhale much ammonia , that is to say , nitrogen , hydrogen and oxygen ( no , nitrogen and hydrogen alone ) , and which sucking up into itself the humus from the ground , mixing together all those different emanations , unites them into a stack , so to say , and combining with the electricity diffused through the atmosphere , when there is any , might in the long run , as in tropical countries , engender insalubrious miasmata - this heat , I say , finds itself perfectly tempered on the side whence it comes , or rather whence it should come - that is to say , the southern side - by the south-eastern winds , which , having cooled themselves passing over the Seine , reach us sometimes all at once like breezes from Russia . ''
`` As I had the honour of putting it to your husband , '' said the chemist , " with regard to this poor Yanoda who has run away , you will find yourself , thanks to his extravagance , in the possession of one of the most comfortable houses of Yonville .
Motionless we traverse countries we fancy we see , and your thought , blending with the fiction , playing with the details , follows the outline of the adventures . It mingles with the characters , and it seems as if it were yourself palpitating beneath their costumes . "
She did not believe that things could present themselves in the same way in different places , and since the portion of her life lived had been bad , no doubt that which remained to be lived would be better .
He gave Madame Bovary information as to the trades-people , sent expressly for his own cider merchant , tasted the drink himself , and saw that the casks were properly placed in the cellar ; he explained how to set about getting in a supply of butter cheap , and made an arrangement with Lestiboudois , the sacristan , who , besides his sacerdotal and funeral functions , looked after the principal gardens at Yonville by the hour or the year , according to the taste of the customers .
Then for diversion he employed himself at home as a workman ; he even tried to do up the attic with some paint which had been left behind by the painters .
It was another bond of the flesh establishing itself , and , as it were , a continued sentiment of a more complex union .
Thus she did not amuse herself with those preparations that stimulate the tenderness of mothers , and so her affection was from the very outset , perhaps , to some extent attenuated .
Whilst she was getting well she occupied herself much in seeking a name for her daughter .
That same evening this was known in Yonville , and Madame Tuvache , the mayor 's wife , declared in the presence of her servant that `` Madame Bovary was compromising herself . ''
She took it up in the wrapping that enveloped it and began singing softly as she rocked herself to and fro .
It flowed noiselessly , swift , and cold to the eye ; long , thin grasses huddled together in it as the current drove them , and spread themselves upon the limpid water like streaming hair ; sometimes at the tip of the reeds or on the leaf of a water-lily an insect with fine legs crawled or rested .
Yet their eyes were full of more serious speech , and while they forced themselves to find trivial phrases , they felt the same languor stealing over them both .
From her turned-up hair a dark colour fell over her back , and growing gradually paler , lost itself little by little in the shade .
Then the three hundred finished , they both stretched themselves out in front of the fire , and were soon asleep .
Monsieur Bovary , little given to jealousy , did not trouble himself about it .
He tortured himself to find out how he could make his declaration to her , and always halting between the fear of displeasing her and the shame of being such a coward , he wept with discouragement and desire .
As to Emma , she did not ask herself whether she loved .
`` Wretched boy ! '' suddenly cried the chemist . And he ran to his son , who had just precipitated himself into a heap of lime in order to whiten his boots .
In the evening Madame Bovary did not go to her neighbour 's , and when Charles had left and she felt herself alone , the comparison re-began with the clearness of a sensation almost actual , and with that lengthening of perspective which memory gives to things . Looking from her bed at the clean fire that was burning , she still saw , as she had down there , Leon standing up with one hand behind his cane , and with the other holding Athalie , who was quietly sucking a piece of ice . She thought him charming ; she could not tear herself away from him ; she recalled his other attitudes on other days , the words he had spoken , the sound of his voice , his whole person ; and she repeated , pouting out her lips as if for a kiss -
`` Yes , charming ! charming ! Is he not in love ? '' she asked herself ; " but with whom ?
Polite to obsequiousness , he always held himself with his back bent in the position of one who bows or who invites .
`` How have I displeased her ? '' he asked himself .
She was so sad and so calm , at once so gentle and so reserved , that near her one felt oneself seized by an icy charm , as we shudder in churches at the perfume of the flowers mingling with the cold of the marble .
She concerned herself about his comings and goings ; she watched his face ; she invented quite a history to find an excuse for going to his room .
Then the lusts of the flesh , the longing for money , and the melancholy of passion all blended themselves into one suffering , and instead of turning her thoughts from it , she clave to it the more , urging herself to pain , and seeking everywhere occasion for it . She was irritated by an ill-served dish or by a half-open door ; bewailed the velvets she had not , the happiness she had missed , her too exalted dreams , her narrow home .
She would have liked Charles to beat her , that she might have a better right to hate him , to revenge herself upon him .
With this repeated tinkling the thoughts of the young woman lost themselves in old memories of her youth and school-days .
At mass on Sundays , when she looked up , she saw the gentle face of the Virgin amid the blue smoke of the rising incense . Then she was moved ; she felt herself weak and quite deserted , like the down of a bird whirled by the tempest , and it was unconsciously that she went towards the church , included to no matter what devotions , so that her soul was absorbed and all existence lost in it .
`` Where is the cure ? '' asked Madame Bovary of one of the lads , who was amusing himself by shaking a swivel in a hole too large for it .
Then , bethinking himself , " But you were asking me something ?
One can not lead them too soon into the path of the Lord , as , moreover , he has himself recommended us to do by the mouth of his Divine Son .
She went up the steps of the staircase holding on to the banisters , and when she was in her room threw herself into an arm-chair .
The furniture in its place seemed to have become more immobile , and to lose itself in the shadow as in an ocean of darkness .
Madame Bovary sprang to lift her up , broke the bell-rope , called for the servant with all her might , and she was just going to curse herself when Charles appeared .
`` Look , dear ! '' said Emma , in a calm voice , `` the little one fell down while she was playing , and has hurt herself . ''
`` I assure you it 's nothing . '' he said , kissing her on the forehead . `` Do n't worry , my poor darling ; you will make yourself ill . ''
Although he had not seemed much moved , Homais , nevertheless , had exerted himself to buoy him up , to `` keep up his spirits . ''
`` Can he suspect anything ? '' Leon asked himself .
At last , Charles , having shut the door , asked him to see himself what would be the price at Rouen of a fine daguerreotypes .
All the same , his companion seemed very strange to him , for Leon often threw himself back in his chair , and stretching out his arms . Complained vaguely of life .
An individual presents himself , well dressed , even wearing an order , and whom one would take for a diplomatist .
He approaches you , he insinuates himself ; offers you a pinch of snuff , or picks up your hat .
And she cursed herself for not having loved Leon .
The wish took possession of her to run after and rejoin him , throw herself into his arms and say to him , `` It is I ; I am yours . ''
The flames , however , subsided , either because the supply had exhausted itself , or because it had been piled up too much .
In the supineness of her conscience she even took her repugnance towards her husband for aspirations towards her lover , the burning of hate for the warmth of tenderness ; but as the tempest still raged , and as passion burnt itself down to the very cinders , and no help came , no sun rose , there was night on all sides , and she was lost in the terrible cold that pierced her .
She thought herself now far more unhappy ; for she had the experience of grief , with the certainty that it would not end .
" She wants to be forced to occupy herself with some manual work .
She was , when she passed through Rouen , to go herself to the lending-library and represent that Emma had discontinued her subscription .
The window in the provinces replaces the theatre and the promenade , she was amusing herself with watching the crowd of boors when she saw a gentleman in a green velvet coat .
It was not from territorial vanity that the new arrival added `` of La Huchette '' to his name , but to make himself the better known .
La Huchette , in fact , was an estate near Yonville , where he had just bought the chateau and two farms that he cultivated himself , without , however , troubling very much about them .
Here 's a fine fitness for practising pharmacy later on ; for under serious circumstances you may be called before the tribunals in order to enlighten the minds of the magistrates , and you would have to keep your head then , to reason , show yourself a man , or else pass for an imbecile . "
Monsieur Boulanger , however , dismissed his servant , advising him to calm himself , since his fancy was over .
He asked himself -
I 'll send them venison , poultry ; I 'll have myself bled , if need be .
`` What 's the meaning of that ? '' he asked himself .
`` Why , '' he went on , `` allow oneself to be intruded upon by others ? And as to-day I have the happiness of being with you - ''
I seem so , because in the midst of the world I know how to wear the mask of a scoffer upon my face ; and yet , how many a time at the sight of a cemetery by moonlight have I not asked myself whether it were not better to join those sleeping there ! "
Monsieur Tuvache answered them with compliments ; the other confessed himself nervous ; and they remained thus , face to face , their foreheads almost touching , with the members of the jury all round , the municipal council , the notable personages , the National Guard and the crowd .
`` Oh , you are slandering yourself , '' said Emma .
They need by turns to dream and to act , the purest passions and the most turbulent joys , and thus they fling themselves into all sorts of fantasies , of follies . "
And , gentlemen , I do not mean that superficial intelligence , vain ornament of idle minds , but rather that profound and balanced intelligence that applies itself above all else to useful objects , thus contributing to the good of all , to the common amelioration and to the support of the state , born of respect for law and the practice of duty - "
For how should we clothe ourselves , how nourish ourselves , without the agriculturist ?
His was not perhaps so florid as that of the councillor , but it recommended itself by a more direct style , that is to say , by more special knowledge and more elevated considerations .
Monsieur Derozerays set himself this problem .
She did not present herself , and one could hear voices whispering -
It was the first time that she found herself in the midst of so large a company , and inwardly scared by the flags , the drums , the gentlemen in frock-coats , and the order of the councillor , she stood motionless , not knowing whether to advance or run away , nor why the crowd was pushing her and the jury were smiling at her .
Each one stuffed himself on his own account .
`` Perhaps you would not do ill , '' Homais said to him , `` to send one of your men , or to go yourself - ''
Then touching on the entry of the councillor , he did not forget `` the martial air of our militia ; '' nor `` our most merry village maidens ; '' nor the `` bald-headed old men like patriarchs who were there , and of whom some , the remnants of our phalanxes , still felt their hearts beat at the manly sound of the drums . '' He cited himself among the first of the members of the jury , and he even called attention in a note to the fact that Monsieur Homais , chemist , had sent a memoir on cider to the agricultural society .
One would have called it a veritable kaleidoscope , a real operatic scene ; and for a moment our little locality might have thought itself transported into the midst of a dream of the ' Thousand and One Nights . '
Of this the other took advantage to pull himself together a little .
Her figure slightly bent , her hand well up , and her right arm stretched out , she gave herself up to the cadence of the movement that rocked her in her saddle .
She feebly tried to disengage herself .
She threw back her white neck , swelling with a sigh , and faltering , in tears , with a long shudder and hiding her face , she gave herself up to him -
And as soon as she had got rid of Charles she went and shut herself up in her room .
But when she saw herself in the glass she wondered at her face .
She became herself , as it were , an actual part of these imaginings , and realised the love-dream of her youth as she saw herself in this type of amorous women whom she had so envied .
This idea made her pant with desire , and she soon found herself in the middle of the field , walking with rapid steps , without looking behind her .
At last he declared with a serious air that her visits were becoming imprudent - that she was compromising herself .
The tax-collector was thus trying to hide the fright he had had , for a prefectorial order having prohibited duckhunting except in boats , Monsieur Binet , despite his respect for the laws , was infringing them , and so he every moment expected to see the rural guard turn up . But this anxiety whetted his pleasure , and , all alone in his tub , he congratulated himself on his luck and on his cuteness . At sight of Emma he seemed relieved from a great weight , and at once entered upon a conversation .
Warm yourself at the stove in the meantime .
Binet explained that he wanted a corrosive to make himself some copperwater with which to remove rust from his hunting things .
`` Why , to defend yourself , '' replied Emma .
The humiliation of feeling herself weak was turning to rancour , tempered by their voluptuous pleasures .
When he did come , she showed herself cold and almost contemptuous .
She even asked herself why she detested Charles ; if it had not been better to have been able to love him ?
Charles , urged by the druggist and by her , allowed himself to be persuaded .
She threw herself on his neck ; they sat down to table ; he ate much , and at dessert he even wanted to take a cup of coffee , a luxury he only permitted himself on Sundays when there was company .
They talked about their future fortune , of the improvements to be made in their house ; he saw people 's estimation of him growing , his comforts increasing , his wife always loving him ; and she was happy to refresh herself with a new sentiment , healthier , better , to feel at last some tenderness for this poor fellow who adored her .
Thus on Tuesday our little town of Yonville found itself the scene of a surgical operation which is at the same time an act of loftiest philanthropy .
He appeared himself breathless , red , anxious , and asking everyone who was going up the stairs -
With many precautions , in order not to disturb the position of the limb , the box was removed , and an awful sight presented itself .
Hippolyte began to worry himself , and Mere Lefrancois , had him installed in the little room near the kitchen , so that he might at least have some distraction .
You coddle yourself like a king !
Bovary himself turned sick at it .
And the doctor left , always recommending him to diet himself .
He began by pitying his sufferings , declaring at the same time that he ought to rejoice at them since it was the will of the Lord , and take advantage of the occasion to reconcile himself to Heaven .
He came in his gig , which he drove himself .
Homais presented himself .
He saw himself dishonoured , ruined , lost ; and his imagination , assailed by a world of hypotheses , tossed amongst them like an empty cask borne by the sea and floating upon the waves .
How was it that she - she , who was so intelligent - could have allowed herself to be deceived again ? and through what deplorable madness had she thus ruined her life by continual sacrifices ? She recalled all her instincts of luxury , all the privations of her soul , the sordidness of marriage , of the household , her dream sinking into the mire like wounded swallows ; all that she had longed for , all that she had denied herself , all that she might have had ! And for what ? for what ?
" Be calm ; compose yourself .
Never had Charles seemed to her so disagreeable , to have such stodgy fingers , such vulgar ways , to be so dull as when they found themselves together after her meeting with Rodolphe .
She loaded herself with bracelets , rings , and necklaces .
Emma had a number in her cupboard that she squandered one after the other , without Charles allowing himself the slightest observation .
He chatted with her about the new goods from Paris , about a thousand feminine trifles , made himself very obliging , and never asked for his money .
I ask myself , Where is he ?
First , Charles had not attended to her advice about the forbidding of novels ; then the `` ways of the house '' annoyed her ; she allowed herself to make some remarks , and there were quarrels , especially one on account of Felicite .
Then , having gone up again to her room , she threw herself flat on her bed and cried there like a child , her face buried in the pillow .
She threw herself into his arms .
A love like ours ought to show itself in the face of heaven .
And she threw herself upon his mouth , as if to seize there the unexpected consent if breathed forth in a kiss .
Emma , in fact , was showing herself more docile , and even carried her deference so far as to ask for a recipe for pickling gherkins .
He pictured her to himself working in the evening by their side beneath the light of the lamp ; she would embroider him slippers ; she would look after the house ; she would fill all the home with her charm and her gaiety .
`` And , '' said Madame Bovary , taking her watch from her belt , `` take this ; you can pay yourself out of it . ''
`` For , after all , '' he exclaimed , gesticulating , `` I ca n't exile myself - have a child on my hands . ''
He was saying these things to give himself firmness .
In fact , these women , rushing at once into his thoughts , cramped each other and lessened , as reduced to a uniform level of love that equalised them all . So taking handfuls of the mixed-up letters , he amused himself for some moments with letting them fall in cascades from his right into his left hand . At last , bored and weary , Rodolphe took back the box to the cupboard , saying to himself , `` What a lot of rubbish ! '' Which summed up his opinion ; for pleasures , like schoolboys in a school courtyard , had so trampled upon his heart that no green thing grew there , and that which passed through it , more heedless than children , did not even , like them , leave a name carved upon the wall .
For I am going to punish myself by exile for all the ill I have done you .
Then she tried to calm herself ; she recalled the letter ; she must finish it ; she did not dare to . And where ?
The slates threw straight down a heavy heat that gripped her temples , stifled her ; she dragged herself to the closed garret-window .
The blue of the heavens suffused her , the air was whirling in her hollow head ; she had but to yield , to let herself be taken ; and the humming of the lathe never ceased , like an angry voice calling her .
Then she unfolded her napkin as if to examine the darns , and she really thought of applying herself to this work , counting the threads in the linen .
He absents himself like that from time to time for a change , and , ma foi , I think he 's right , when one has a fortune and is a bachelor .
`` Speak to us , '' said Charles ; " collect yourself ; it is your Charles , who loves you .
She drew herself up slowly , shading her eyes with her hand to look .
`` You will tire yourself , my darling ! '' said Bovary . And , pushing her gently to make her go into the arbour , `` Sit down on this seat ; you 'll be comfortable . ''
Charles several times asked himself by what means he should next year be able to pay back so much money .
He reproached himself with forgetting Emma , as if , all his thoughts belonging to this woman , it was robbing her of something not to be constantly thinking of her .
One day , when at the height of her illness , she had thought herself dying , and had asked for the communion ; and , while they were making the preparations in her room for the sacrament , while they were turning the night table covered with syrups into an altar , and while Felicite was strewing dahlia flowers on the floor , Emma felt some power passing over her that freed her from her pains , from all perception , from all feeling .
Madame Bovary 's mind was not yet sufficiently clear to apply herself seriously to anything ; moreover , she began this reading in too much hurry .
Nevertheless , she persevered ; and when the volume slipped from her hands , she fancied herself seized with the finest Catholic melancholy that an ethereal soul could conceive .
This searching after faith , she thought , was only one merit the more , and in the pride of her devoutness Emma compared herself to those grand ladies of long ago whose glory she , had dreamed of over a portrait of La Valliere , and who , trailing with so much majesty the lace-trimmed trains of their long gowns , retired into solitudes to shed at the feet of Christ all the tears of hearts that life had wounded .
Then she gave herself up to excessive charity .
And without waiting for any answer from Felicite , who was blushing , she added , `` There ! run along ; enjoy yourself ! ''
The ecclesiastic contented himself with uttering a groan , and the chemist went on -
The druggist , whom nothing whatever kept at Yonville , but who thought himself bound not to budge from it , sighed as he saw them go .
Then addressing himself to Emma , who was wearing a blue silk gown with four flounces -
The doctor was much afraid of missing the beginning , and , without having had time to swallow a plate of soup , they presented themselves at the doors of the theatre , which were still closed .
Another appeared ; they went away , and the hunters started afresh . She felt herself transported to the reading of her youth , into the midst of Walter Scott .
She gave herself up to the lullaby of the melodies , and felt all her being vibrate as if the violin bows were drawn over her nerves . She had not eyes enough to look at the costumes , the scenery , the actors , the painted trees that shook when anyone walked , and the velvet caps , cloaks , swords - all those imaginary things that floated amid the harmony as in the atmosphere of another world .
She had ruined herself for him .
Emma dreamed of her marriage day ; she saw herself at home again amid the corn in the little path as they walked to the church .
She , on the contrary , had been joyous , without seeing the abyss into which she was throwing herself .
With him , through all the kingdoms of Europe she would have travelled from capital to capital , sharing his fatigues and his pride , picking up the flowers thrown to him , herself embroidering his costumes .
But soon recalling herself to the necessities of the situation , with an effort she shook off the torpor of her memories , and began stammering a few hurried words .
He was standing behind her , leaning with his shoulder against the wall of the box ; now and again she felt herself shuddering beneath the hot breath from his nostrils falling upon her hair .
And changing his tactics at this unexpected opportunity that presented itself to his hopes , the young man sang the praises of Lagardy in the last number .
Charles explained once more that he could not absent himself longer , but that nothing prevented Emma -
One ought not to accustom oneself to impossible pleasures when there are a thousand demands upon one . "
As they talked they explained more and more fully the motives of their sadness , working themselves up in their progressive confidence .
Often I went out ; I went away . I dragged myself along the quays , seeking distraction amid the din of the crowd without being able to banish the heaviness that weighed upon me .
He started off in praise of virtue , duty , and silent immolation , having himself an incredible longing for self-sacrifice that he could not satisfy .
`` Because I loved you so ! '' And congratulating himself at having surmounted the difficulty , Leon watched her face out of the corner of his eyes .
No doubt Emma did not herself know , quite absorbed as she was by the charm of the seduction , and the necessity of defending herself from it ; and contemplating the young man with a moved look , she gently repulsed the timid caresses that his trembling hands attempted .
The next morning , at the open window , and humming on his balcony , Leon himself varnished his pumps with several coatings .
He seemed to him to be conducting himself in a monstrous fashion , to be robbing him in a sort , and almost committing sacrilege .
It was thus the druggist called a small room under the leads , full of the utensils and the goods of his trade . He often spent long hours there alone , labelling , decanting , and doing up again ; and he looked upon it not as a simple store , but as a veritable sanctuary , whence there afterwards issued , elaborated by his hands , all sorts of pills , boluses , infusions , lotions , and potions , that would bear far and wide his celebrity . No one in the world set foot there , and he respected it so , that he swept it himself . Finally , if the pharmacy , open to all comers , was the spot where he displayed his pride , the Capharnaum was the refuge where , egoistically concentrating himself , Homais delighted in the exercise of his predilections , so that Justin 's thoughtlessness seemed to him a monstrous piece of irreverence , and , redder than the currants , he repeated -
" Presently ! Do you know to what you exposed yourself ?
Often I am horrified myself when I think of my responsibility ; for the Government persecutes us , and the absurd legislation that rules us is a veritable Damocles ' sword over our heads . "
He would have quoted Chinese or Greenlandish had he known those two languages , for he was in one of those crises in which the whole soul shows indistinctly what it contains , like the ocean , which , in the storm , opens itself from the seaweeds on its shores down to the sands of its abysses .
Then he came straight to his pupil , and , planting himself in front of him with crossed arms -
However , he was growing calmer , and was now grumbling in a paternal tone whilst he fanned himself with his skull-cap .
At any rate , not till you are man yourself and your temperament is formed . "
Seeing her so taciturn , Charles imagined her much affected , and forced himself to say nothing , not to reawaken this sorrow which moved him .
`` Did you enjoy yourself yesterday ? '' he asked .
She had bored herself so prodigiously the last two days .
The doctor , of course , would do as he pleased ; he was not to trouble himself , especially just now , when he would have a lot of worry .
Then he came again to measure it ; he came again on other pretexts , always trying to make himself agreeable , useful , `` enfeoffing himself , '' as Homais would have said , and always dropping some hint to Emma about the power of attorney .
For my own part , I think that mothers ought themselves to instruct their children .
At last , when he had eaten his soup , put on his cloak , lighted his pipe , and grasped his whip , he calmly installed himself on his seat .
A giddiness seemed to her to detach itself from this mass of existence , and her heart swelled as if the hundred and twenty thousand souls that palpitated there had all at once sent into it the vapour of the passions she fancied theirs . Her love grew in the presence of this vastness , and expanded with tumult to the vague murmurings that rose towards her .
They were so completely lost in the possession of each other that they thought themselves in their own house , and that they would live there till death , like two spouses eternally young . They said `` our room , '' `` our carpet , '' she even said `` my slippers , '' a gift of Leon 's , a whim she had had .
So he thought himself the most fortunate of men and Emma was without uneasiness , when , one evening suddenly he said -
`` If I were in your place , '' he said , `` I should clear myself of my debts , and have money left over . ''
`` It really grieves me , on my word ! to see you depriving yourself all at once of such a big sum as that . ''
Instead of sending a reply she came herself ; and when Emma wanted to know whether he had got anything out of her , `` Yes , '' he replied ; `` but she wants to see the account . ''
I should be ashamed to coddle myself as you do !
As he was turning into the street , Emma herself appeared at the other end of it .
He threw himself upon her rather than embraced her , crying -
This was a sort of permission that she gave herself , so as to get perfect freedom in her escapades .
At last she ran to his office ; and , lost in all sorts of conjectures , accusing him of indifference , and reproaching herself for her weakness , she spent the afternoon , her face pressed against the window-panes .
Homais was enjoying himself .
Then , through cowardice , through stupidity , through that indefinable feeling that drags us into the most distasteful acts , he allowed himself to be led off to Bridoux ' , whom they found in his small yard , superintending three workmen , who panted as they turned the large wheel of a machine for making seltzer-water .
This failing to keep their rendezvous seemed to her an insult , and she tried to rake up other reasons to separate herself from him .
They gradually came to talking more frequently of matters outside their love , and in the letters that Emma wrote him she spoke of flowers , verses , the moon and the stars , naive resources of a waning passion striving to keep itself alive by all external aids .
She was constantly promising herself a profound felicity on her next journey . Then she confessed to herself that she felt nothing extraordinary .
She went on tiptoe , barefooted , to see once more that the door was closed , then , pale , serious , and , without speaking , with one movement , she threw herself upon his breast with a long shudder .
`` But I was pressed myself ; the knife was at my own throat . ''
He explained everything through her old nervous illness , and reproaching himself with having taken her infirmities for faults , accused himself of egotism , and longed to go and take her in his arms .
One day she drew six small silver-gilt spoons from her bag ( they were old Roualt 's wedding present ) , begging him to pawn them at once for her , and Leon obeyed , though the proceeding annoyed him . He was afraid of compromising himself .
In fact someone had sent his mother a long anonymous letter to warn her that he was `` ruining himself with a married woman , '' and the good lady at once conjuring up the eternal bugbear of families , the vague pernicious creature , the siren , the monster , who dwells fantastically in depths of love , wrote to Lawyer Dubocage , his employer , who behaved perfectly in the affair . He kept him for three quarters of an hour trying to open his eyes , to warn him of the abyss into which he was falling . Such an intrigue would damage him later on , when he set up for himself . He implored him to break with her , and , if he would not make this sacrifice in his own interest , to do it at least for his , Dubocage 's sake .
At last Leon swore he would not see Emma again , and he reproached himself with not having kept his word , considering all the worry and lectures this woman might still draw down upon him , without reckoning the jokes made by his companions as they sat round the stove in the morning . Besides , he was soon to be head clerk ; it was time to settle down . So he gave up his flute , exalted sentiments , and poetry ; for every bourgeois in the flush of his youth , were it but for a day , a moment , has believed himself capable of immense passions , of lofty enterprises . The most mediocre libertine has dreamed of sultanas ; every notary bears within him the debris of a poet .
On Mid-Lent she did not return to Yonville , but in the evening went to a masked ball . She wore velvet breeches , red stockings , a club wig , and three-cornered hat cocked on one side . She danced all night to the wild tones of the trombones ; people gathered round her , and in the morning she found herself on the steps of the theatre together with five or six masks , debardeuses  and sailors , Leon 's comrades , who were talking about having supper .
Then , reaching the `` Croix-Rouge , '' she threw herself on the bed in her little room on the second floor , where there were pictures of the `` Tour de Nesle . ''
She presented herself at his place with an offhand air .
She was stoical the next day when Maitre Hareng , the bailiff , with two assistants , presented himself at her house to draw up the inventory for the distraint .
An infernal boldness looked out from her burning eyes , and their lids drew close together with a lascivious and encouraging look , so that the young man felt himself growing weak beneath the mute will of this woman who was urging him to a crime .
She was so overwhelmed , so sad , that she had to lean against a wall to keep herself from falling .
Madame Homais was very fond of these small , heavy turban-shaped loaves , that are eaten in Lent with salt butter ; a last vestige of Gothic food that goes back , perhaps , to the time of the Crusades , and with which the robust Normans gorged themselves of yore , fancying they saw on the table , in the light of the yellow torches , between tankards of hippocras and huge boars ' heads , the heads of Saracens to be devoured .
Instead of getting drunk at the public , you 'd do better to die yourself . "
But the druggist said that he would cure himself with an antiphlogistic pomade of his own composition , and he gave his address - `` Monsieur Homais , near the market , pretty well known . ''
They might , either in the turf-peats of Grumesnil or building-ground at Havre , almost without risk , have ventured on some excellent speculations ; and he let her consume herself with rage at the thought of the fabulous sums that she would certainly have made .
He dragged himself towards her on his knees , regardless of his dressing-gown .
`` What a wretch ! what a scoundrel ! what an infamy ! '' she said to herself , as she fled with nervous steps beneath the aspens of the path . The disappointment of her failure increased the indignation of her outraged modesty ; it seemed to her that Providence pursued her implacably , and , strengthening herself in her pride , she had never felt so much esteem for herself nor so much contempt for others . A spirit of warfare transformed her . She would have liked to strike all men , to spit in their faces , to crush them , and she walked rapidly straight on , pale , quivering , maddened , searching the empty horizon with tear-dimmed eyes , and as it were rejoicing in the hate that was choking her .
She hurried off to tell Madame Caron , and the two ladies went up to the attic , and , hidden by some linen spread across props , stationed themselves comfortably for overlooking the whole of Binet 's room .
And she already saw herself at Lheureux 's spreading out her three bank-notes on his bureau .
So she set out towards La Huchette , not seeing that she was hastening to offer herself to that which but a while ago had so angered her , not in the least conscious of her prostitution .
She asked herself as she walked along , " What am I going to say ?
She collected her thoughts for one moment , and , strengthening herself by the feeling of present necessity , went in .
Then he began a long explanation of his conduct , excusing himself in vague terms , in default of being able to invent better .
She was betraying , ruining herself .
For you love yourself ; you live well .
`` I have n't got them , '' replied Rodolphe , with that perfect calm with which resigned rage covers itself as with a shield .
Madness was coming upon her ; she grew afraid , and managed to recover herself , in a confused way , it is true , for she did not in the least remember the cause of the terrible condition she was in , that is to say , the question of money .
She was studying herself curiously , to see if she were not suffering .
Her shoulders were shaken by a strong shuddering , and she was growing paler than the sheets in which her clenched fingers buried themselves .
He threw himself on his knees by her bed .
`` Bring me the child , '' she said , raising herself on her elbow .
At last , when Canivet came in , he threw himself into his arms .
He sent quickly to the `` Lion d 'Or '' for some pigeons ; to the butcher 's for all the cutlets that were to be had ; to Tuvache for cream ; and to Lestiboudois for eggs ; and the druggist himself aided in the preparations , while Madame Homais was saying as she pulled together the strings of her jacket -
`` But how did she poison herself ? ''
But suddenly controlling himself -
" I have even read that various persons have found themselves under toxicological symptoms , and , as it were , thunderstricken by black-pudding that had been subjected to a too vehement fumigation .
At last the three horses started ; and it was the general opinion that he had not shown himself at all obliging .
Emma , her chin sunken upon her breast , had her eyes inordinately wide open , and her poor hands wandered over the sheets with that hideous and soft movement of the dying , that seems as if they wanted already to cover themselves with the shroud .
Her chest soon began panting rapidly ; the whole of her tongue protruded from her mouth ; her eyes , as they rolled , grew paler , like the two globes of a lamp that is going out , so that one might have thought her already dead but for the fearful labouring of her ribs , shaken by violent breathing , as if the soul were struggling to free itself .
Emma raised herself like a galvanised corpse , her hair undone , her eyes fixed , staring .
But still , when he saw that she did not move , Charles threw himself upon her , crying -
`` Restrain yourself ! ''
Weaker than a child , Charles let himself be led downstairs into the sitting-room , and Monsieur Homais soon went home .
On the Place he was accosted by the blind man , who , having dragged himself as far as Yonville , in the hope of getting the antiphlogistic pomade , was asking every passer-by where the druggist lived .
`` Now , '' said the chemist , `` you ought yourself to fix the hour for the ceremony . ''
Homais , to keep himself in countenance , took up a water-bottle on the whatnot to water the geraniums .
He shut himself up in his consulting-room , took a pen , and after sobbing for some time , wrote -
He threw himself upon it and fell asleep .
He stood opposite her , the better to see her , and he lost himself in a contemplation so deep that it was no longer painful .
At last , stiffening himself against emotion , Homais gave two or three great cuts at random that left white patches amongst that beautiful black hair .
He was dizzy ; he heard voices round about him ; he felt himself going mad .
At Quincampoix , to give himself heart , he drank three cups of coffee one after the other .
The poor fellow tried to show himself brave , and repeated several times .
Yet he tried to stir himself to a feeling of devotion , to throw himself into the hope of a future life in which he should see her again .
At times he thought he felt nothing more , and he enjoyed this lull in his pain , whilst at the same time he reproached himself for being a wretch .
They ranged themselves all round ; and while the priest spoke , the red soil thrown up at the sides kept noiselessly slipping down at the corners .
He sent her kisses ; he dragged himself towards the grave , to engulf himself with her .
Rodolphe , who , to distract himself , had been rambling about the wood all day , was sleeping quietly in his chateau , and Leon , down yonder , always slept .
Money troubles soon began again , Monsieur Lheureux urging on anew his friend Vincart , and Charles pledged himself for exorbitant sums ; for he would never consent to let the smallest of the things that had belonged to HER be sold .
Felicite now wore Madame Bovary 's gowns ; not all , for he had kept some of them , and he went to look at them in her dressing-room , locking himself up there ; she was about her height , and often Charles , seeing her from behind , was seized with an illusion , and cried out -
The blind man , whom he had not been able to cure with the pomade , had gone back to the hill of Bois-Guillaume , where he told the travellers of the vain attempt of the druggist , to such an extent , that Homais when he went to town hid himself behind the curtains of the `` Hirondelle '' to avoid meeting him .
He busied himself with great questions : the social problem , moralisation of the poorer classes , pisciculture , caoutchouc , railways , etc . He even began to blush at being a bourgeois .
`` In short ! '' he cried , making a pirouette , `` if it were only for distinguishing myself at fires ! ''
He sold himself - in a word , prostituted himself .
Then they said `` he shut himself up to drink . ''
He questioned himself ; he sought to divine who could have been that soul in torment which had not been willing to quit this world without leaving this stigma of crime or unhappiness upon the brow of the ancient church .
Thousands of good , calm , bourgeois faces thronged the windows , the doors , the dormer windows , the roofs , gazing at the palace , gazing at the populace , and asking nothing more ; for many Parisians content themselves with the spectacle of the spectators , and a wall behind which something is going on becomes at once , for us , a very curious thing indeed .
The two extremities of this gigantic parallelogram were occupied , the one by the famous marble table , so long , so broad , and so thick that , as the ancient land rolls   in a style that would have given Gargantua an appetite   say , `` such a slice of marble as was never beheld in the world '' ; the other by the chapel where Louis XI. had himself sculptured on his knees before the Virgin , and whither he caused to be brought , without heeding the two gaps thus made in the row of royal statues , the statues of Charlemagne and of Saint Louis , two saints whom he supposed to be great in favor in heaven , as kings of France .
Among the rest there was a group of those merry imps , who , after smashing the glass in a window , had seated themselves hardily on the entablature , and from that point despatched their gaze and their railleries both within and without , upon the throng in the hall , and the throng upon the Place .
Then a great hurly  burly ensued ; a vast movement of feet , hands , and heads ; a general outbreak of coughs and handkerchiefs ; each one arranged himself , assumed his post , raised himself up , and grouped himself .
The crowd hurled itself towards them , and they already beheld the frail wooden railing , which separated them from it , giving way and bending before the pressure of the throng .
The author of the `` Cid '' could not have said `` Pierre Corneille '' with more pride . Our readers have been able to observe , that a certain amount of time must have already elapsed from the moment when Jupiter had retired beneath the tapestry to the instant when the author of the new morality had thus abruptly revealed himself to the innocent admiration of Gisquette and Linarde .
The music of high and low instruments immediately became audible from the interior of the stage ; the tapestry was raised ; four personages , in motley attire and painted faces , emerged from it , climbed the steep ladder of the theatre , and , arrived upon the upper platform , arranged themselves in a line before the public , whom they saluted with profound reverences ; then the symphony ceased .
A tattered mendicant , who could not collect any coins , lost as he was in the midst of the crowd , and who had not probably found sufficient indemnity in the pockets of his neighbors , had hit upon the idea of perching himself upon some conspicuous point , in order to attract looks and alms .
He had , accordingly , hoisted himself , during the first verses of the prologue , with the aid of the pillars of the reserve gallery , to the cornice which ran round the balustrade at its lower edge ; and there he had seated himself , soliciting the attention and the pity of the multitude , with his rags and a hideous sore which covered his right arm .
On recovering from his first stupefaction , he bestirred himself to shout , to the four personages on the stage , `` Go on ! What the devil !   go on ! ''   without even deigning to cast a glance of disdain upon the two interrupters .
A true eclectic , as it would be expressed nowadays , Gringoire was one of those firm and lofty , moderate and calm spirits , which always know how to bear themselves amid all circumstances ( ~ stare in dimidio rerum ~ ) , and who are full of reason and of liberal philosophy , while still setting store by cardinals .
Nevertheless , he was a fine man ; he led a joyous cardinal 's life , liked to enliven himself with the royal vintage of Challuau , did not hate Richarde la Garmoise and Thomasse la Saillarde , bestowed alms on pretty girls rather than on old women ,   and for all these reasons was very agreeable to the populace of Paris .
So he turned toward the door , and with the best grace in the world ( so well had he trained himself to it ) , when the usher announced , in a sonorous voice , `` Messieurs the Envoys of Monsieur the Duke of Austria . '' It is useless to add that the whole hall did the same .
While the pensioner of Ghent and his eminence were exchanging very low bows and a few words in voices still lower , a man of lofty stature , with a large face and broad shoulders , presented himself , in order to enter abreast with Guillaume Rym ; one would have pronounced him a bull  dog by the side of a fox .
The arrival of the illustrious guests had by no means caused him to relax his hold , and , while the prelates and ambassadors were packing themselves into the stalls   like genuine Flemish herrings   he settled himself at his ease , and boldly crossed his legs on the architrave .
Now , chance ordained that the master hosier of Ghent , with whom the people were already in lively sympathy , and upon whom all eyes were riveted   should come and seat himself in the front row of the gallery , directly above the mendicant ; and people were not a little amazed to see the Flemish ambassador , on concluding his inspection of the knave thus placed beneath his eyes , bestow a friendly tap on that ragged shoulder .
This semi  approbation sufficed for Gringoire , and , conducting his own affairs , he began to shout , confounding himself with the crowd as much as possible : `` Begin the mystery again ! begin again ! ''
But Gringoire had multiplied himself , and only shouted the more vigorously : `` Begin again ! begin again ! ''
Both parties were forced to resign themselves .
The four personages of the prologue were bewailing themselves in their mortal embarrassment , when Venus in person , ( ~ vera incessa patuit dea ~ ) presented herself to them , clad in a fine robe bearing the heraldic device of the ship of the city of Paris .
She had come herself to claim the dolphin promised to the most beautiful .
He had hardened himself against adversity .    `` Continue ! '' he had said for the third time , to his comedians , speaking machines ; then as he was marching with great strides in front of the marble table , a fancy seized him to go and appear in his turn at the aperture of the chapel , were it only for the pleasure of making a grimace at that ungrateful populace .   `` But no , that would not be worthy of us ; no , vengeance ! let us combat until the end , '' he repeated to himself ; " the power of poetry over people is great ; I will bring them back .
Gringoire was forced to content himself with this eulogy ; for a thunder of applause , mingled with a prodigious acclamation , cut their conversation short .
Master Coppenole himself applauded , and Clopin Trouillefou , who had been among the competitors ( and God knows what intensity of ugliness his visage could attain ) , confessed himself conquered : We will do the same .
Quasimodo contented himself with taking him by the girdle , and hurling him ten paces off amid the crowd ; all without uttering a word .
`` What a devil of a man ! '' said Robin Poussepain still all bruised with his fall . " He shows himself ; he 's a hunchback .
Then they made him seat himself on a motley litter .
Gringoire bore this new disaster heroically ; he picked himself up , and reached the water 's edge .
`` Oh ! '' said he , `` I would gladly drown myself , were the water not so cold ! ''
`` At least , '' he said to himself , " I shall there have a firebrand of joy wherewith to warm myself , and I can sup on some crumbs of the three great armorial bearings of royal sugar which have been erected on the public refreshment  stall of the city .
Just see if those boobies will put themselves out ! Move aside !
They are warming themselves , much pleasure may it give them !
And , seating herself , she gracefully presented her tambourine to the goat .
Djali reared himself on his hind legs , and began to bleat , marching along with so much dainty gravity , that the entire circle of spectators burst into a laugh at this parody of the interested devoutness of the captain of pistoliers .
The goat seated himself on his hind quarters , and began to bleat , waving his fore feet in so strange a manner , that , with the exception of the bad French , and worse Latin , Jacques Charmolue was there complete ,   gesture , accent , and attitude .
`` Will you take yourself off , you Egyptian grasshopper ? '' cried a sharp voice , which proceeded from the darkest corner of the Place .
No supper , no shelter ; he saw himself pressed on all sides by necessity , and he found necessity very crabbed .
Only joy made itself felt , only pride dominated .
He 'll get himself devoured ! "
The formidable Quasimodo had hurled himself from the litter , and the women turned aside their eyes in order not to see him tear the archdeacon asunder .
Quasimodo placed himself in front of the priest , set in play the muscles of his athletic fists , and glared upon the assailants with the snarl of an angry tiger .
Quasimodo then constituted himself the rearguard , and followed the archdeacon , walking backwards , squat , surly , monstrous , bristling , gathering up his limbs , licking his boar 's tusks , growling like a wild beast , and imparting to the crowd immense vibrations , with a look or a gesture .
There was in this voluntary abdication of his freewill , in this fancy submitting itself to another fancy , which suspects it not , a mixture of fantastic independence and blind obedience , something indescribable , intermediate between slavery and liberty , which pleased Gringoire ,   a spirit essentially compound , undecided , and complex , holding the extremities of all extremes , incessantly suspended between all human propensities , and neutralizing one by the other .
He was fond of comparing himself to Mahomet 's coffin , attracted in two different directions by two loadstones , and hesitating eternally between the heights and the depths , between the vault and the pavement , between fall and ascent , between zenith and nadir .
The gypsy gracefully raised herself upright upon the officer 's saddle , placed both hands upon the young man 's shoulders , and gazed fixedly at him for several seconds , as though enchanted with his good looks and with the aid which he had just rendered her .
`` Captain Phoebus de Chteaupers , at your service , my beauty ! '' replied the officer , drawing himself up .
Moreover , his hand was tolerably free ; he stopped up his nose and resigned himself .
Gringoire who was not quite dead yet , half raised himself .
There is my pallet burning . `` And comparing himself to the pilot who suffers shipwreck by night , '' ~ Salve ~ , `` he added piously , '' ~ salve , maris stella ~ ! "
And then , in proportion as he plunged deeper into the street , cripples in bowls , blind men and lame men , swarmed about him , and men with one arm , and with one eye , and the leprous with their sores , some emerging from little streets adjacent , some from the air  holes of cellars , howling , bellowing , yelping , all limping and halting , all flinging themselves towards the light , and humped up in the mire , like snails after a shower .
Reality made its way to the light around him , struck his eyes , struck his feet , and demolished , bit by bit , all that frightful poetry with which he had , at first , believed himself to be surrounded .
He was forced to perceive that he was not walking in the Styx , but in mud , that he was elbowed not by demons , but by thieves ; that it was not his soul which was in question , but his life ( since he lacked that precious conciliator , which places itself so effectually between the bandit and the honest man   a purse ) .
The spectacle which presented itself to his eyes , when his ragged escort finally deposited him at the end of his trip , was not fitted to bear him back to poetry , even to the poetry of hell .
Justify yourself ; announce your titles . "
Zounds ! let yourself be hung , and do n't kick up such a row over it ! "
Then he shouted shrilly : `` Silence ! '' and , as the cauldron and the frying  pan did not heed him , and continued their duet , he jumped down from his hogshead , gave a kick to the boiler , which rolled ten paces away bearing the child with it , a kick to the frying  pan , which upset in the fire with all its grease , and gravely remounted his throne , without troubling himself about the stifled tears of the child , or the grumbling of the old woman , whose supper was wasting away in a fine white flame .
Trouillefou made a sign , and the duke , the emperor , and the passed masters of pickpockets , and the isolated robbers , came and ranged themselves around him in a horseshoe , of which Gringoire , still roughly held by the body , formed the centre .
Here is a means of extricating yourself from your predicament for the moment .
`` Do you consent , '' resumed Clopin , `` to enroll yourself among the people of the knife ? ''
`` You recognize yourself as a member of the free bourgeoisie ? ''  added the King of Thunes .
Several thieves detached themselves from the circle , and returned a moment later .
`` What are they going to do ? '' Gringoire asked himself with some uneasiness .
The band of thieves applauded Clopin 's words , and arranged themselves in a circle round the gibbet , with a laugh so pitiless that Gringoire perceived that he amused them too much not to have everything to fear from them .
Perceiving that no respite , nor reprieve , nor subterfuge was possible , he bravely decided upon his course of action ; he wound his right foot round his left leg , raised himself on his left foot , and stretched out his arm : but at the moment when his hand touched the manikin , his body , which was now supported upon one leg only , wavered on the stool which had but three ; he made an involuntary effort to support himself by the manikin , lost his balance , and fell heavily to the ground , deafened by the fatal vibration of the thousand bells of the manikin , which , yielding to the impulse imparted by his hand , described first a rotary motion , and then swayed majestically between the two posts .
`` Now , '' resumed Clopin Trouillefou , `` as soon as I clap my hands , you , Andry the Red , will fling the stool to the ground with a blow of your knee ; you , Franois Chante  Prune , will cling to the feet of the rascal ; and you , Bellevigne , will fling yourself on his shoulders ; and all three at once , do you hear ? ''
`` Are you ready ? '' said Clopin Trouillefou to the three thieves , who held themselves in readiness to fall upon Gringoire .
The vagabonds , male and female , ranged themselves gently along her path , and their brutal faces beamed beneath her glance .
A few moments later our poet found himself in a tiny arched chamber , very cosy , very warm , seated at a table which appeared to ask nothing better than to make some loans from a larder hanging near by , having a good bed in prospect , and alone with a pretty girl .
He began seriously to take himself for a personage in a fairy tale ; he cast his eyes about him from time to time to time , as though to see if the chariot of fire , harnessed to two  winged chimeras , which alone could have so rapidly transported him from Tartarus to Paradise , were still there .
At last she came and seated herself near the table , and Gringoire was able to scrutinize her at his ease .
`` Can you ask me , adorable Esmeralda ? '' replied Gringoire , with so passionate an accent that he was himself astonished at it on hearing himself speak .
She bounded from one end of the tiny room to the other , stooped down , and raised herself again , with a little poniard in her hand , before Gringoire had even had time to see whence the poniard came ; proud and angry , with swelling lips and inflated nostrils , her cheeks as red as an api apple ,  and her eyes darting lightnings .
At the same time , the white goat placed itself in front of her , and presented to Gringoire a hostile front , bristling with two pretty horns , gilded and very sharp .
She replied by a negative sign of the head , and her pensive glance fixed itself upon the vault of the ceiling .
Gringoire colored , and took the hint . It was evident that the young girl was alluding to the slight assistance which he had rendered her in the critical situation in which she had found herself two hours previously .
A fruit dealer gave me a plum here , a baker flung me a crust there ; in the evening I got myself taken up by the watch , who threw me into prison , and there I found a bundle of straw .
In the winter I warmed myself in the sun , under the porch of the Htel de Sens , and I thought it very ridiculous that the fire on Saint John 's Day was reserved for the dog days .
There was no piece of furniture adapted to sleeping purposes , except a tolerably long wooden coffer ; and its cover was carved , to boot ; which afforded Gringoire , when he stretched himself out upon it , a sensation somewhat similar to that which Micromgas would feel if he were to lie down on the Alps .
`` Come ! '' said he , adjusting himself as well as possible , " I must resign myself .
And , in the first place , to cite only a few leading examples , there certainly are few finer architectural pages than this faade , where , successively and at once , the three portals hollowed out in an arch ; the broidered and dentated cordon of the eight and twenty royal niches ; the immense central rose window , flanked by its two lateral windows , like a priest by his deacon and subdeacon ; the frail and lofty gallery of trefoil arcades , which supports a heavy platform above its fine , slender columns ; and lastly , the two black and massive towers with their slate penthouses , harmonious parts of a magnificent whole , superposed in five gigantic stories ;   develop themselves before the eye , in a mass and without confusion , with their innumerable details of statuary , carving , and sculpture , joined powerfully to the tranquil grandeur of the whole ; a vast symphony in stone , so to speak ; the colossal work of one man and one people , all together one and complex , like the Iliads and the Romanceros , whose sister it is ; prodigious product of the grouping together of all the forces of an epoch , where , upon each stone , one sees the fancy of the workman disciplined by the genius of the artist start forth in a hundred fashions ; a sort of human creation , in a word , powerful and fecund as the divine creation of which it seems to have stolen the double character ,   variety , eternity .
And if we ascend the cathedral , without mentioning a thousand barbarisms of every sort ,   what has become of that charming little bell tower , which rested upon the point of intersection of the cross  roofs , and which , no less frail and no less bold than its neighbor ( also destroyed ) , the spire of the Sainte  Chapelle , buried itself in the sky , farther forward than the towers , slender , pointed , sonorous , carved in open work .
One can distinguish on its ruins three sorts of lesions , all three of which cut into it at different depths ; first , time , which has insensibly notched its surface here and there , and gnawed it everywhere ; next , political and religious revolution , which , blind and wrathful by nature , have flung themselves tumultuously upon it , torn its rich garment of carving and sculpture , burst its rose windows , broken its necklace of arabesques and tiny figures , torn out its statues , sometimes because of their mitres , sometimes because of their crowns ; lastly , fashions , even more grotesque and foolish , which , since the anarchical and splendid deviations of the Renaissance , have followed each other in the necessary decadence of architecture .
It is the old oak crowning itself , and which , to heap the measure full , is stung , bitten , and gnawed by caterpillars .
The Saxon architect completed the erection of the first pillars of the nave , when the pointed arch , which dates from the Crusade , arrived and placed itself as a conqueror upon the large Romanesque capitals which should support only round arches .
There are , invariably , two naves , which intersect in a cross , and whose upper portion , rounded into an apse , forms the choir ; there are always the side aisles , for interior processions , for chapels ,   a sort of lateral walks or promenades where the principal nave discharges itself through the spaces between the pillars .
There they plant themselves squarely , cut themselves gardens from the fields , and take their ease .
In the sixteenth , it seems to retreat visibly , and to bury itself deeper and deeper in the old city , so thick had the new city already become outside of it .
But these are the principal masses which were then to be distinguished when the eye began to accustom itself to this tumult of edifices .
Thus the City first presented itself to the eye , with its stern to the east , and its prow to the west .
The ground of the University was hilly ; Mount Sainte  Genevive formed an enormous mound to the south ; and it was a sight to see from the summit of Notre  Dame how that throng of narrow and tortuous streets ( to  day the Latin Quarter ) , those bunches of houses which , spread out in every direction from the top of this eminence , precipitated themselves in disorder , and almost perpendicularly down its flanks , nearly to the water 's edge , having the air , some of falling , others of clambering up again , and all of holding to one another .
But that which attracted the eye most of all , and fixed it for a long time on that point , was the abbey itself .
It is certain that this monastery , which had a grand air , both as a church and as a seignory ; that abbatial palace , where the bishops of Paris counted themselves happy if they could pass the night ; that refectory , upon which the architect had bestowed the air , the beauty , and the rose window of a cathedral ; that elegant chapel of the Virgin ; that monumental dormitory ; those vast gardens ; that portcullis ; that drawbridge ; that envelope of battlements which notched to the eye the verdure of the surrounding meadows ; those courtyards , where gleamed men at arms , intermingled with golden copes ;   the whole grouped and clustered about three lofty spires , with round arches , well planted upon a Gothic apse , made a magnificent figure against the horizon .
Nevertheless , the remarkably pointed and lofty roof of the modern palace , bristling with carved eaves , covered with sheets of lead , where coiled a thousand fantastic arabesques of sparkling incrustations of gilded bronze , that roof , so curiously damascened , darted upwards gracefully from the midst of the brown ruins of the ancient edifice ; whose huge and ancient towers , rounded by age like casks , sinking together with old age , and rending themselves from top to bottom , resembled great bellies unbuttoned .
Finally , the fourth compartment , which stretched itself out in the agglomeration of the roofs on the right bank , and which occupied the western angle of the enclosure , and the banks of the river down stream , was a fresh cluster of palaces and Htels pressed close about the base of the Louvre .
Behind the Bastille there were twenty hovels clustered round the curious sculptures of the Croix  Faubin and the flying buttresses of the Abbey of Saint  Antoine des Champs ; then Popincourt , lost amid wheat fields ; then la Courtille , a merry village of wine  shops ; the hamlet of Saint  Laurent with its church whose bell tower , from afar , seemed to add itself to the pointed towers of the Porte Saint  Martin ; the Faubourg Saint  Denis , with the vast enclosure of Saint  Ladre ; beyond the Montmartre Gate , the Grange  Batelire , encircled with white walls ; behind it , with its chalky slopes , Montmartre , which had then almost as many churches as windmills , and which has kept only the windmills , for society no longer demands anything but bread for the body .
But this splendid moment lasted only for a short time ; the Renaissance was not impartial ; it did not content itself with building , it wished to destroy ; it is true that it required the room .
At the rate at which Paris is now proceeding , it will renew itself every fifty years .
Decretals digested , he flung himself upon medicine , on the liberal arts .
This catastrophe was a crisis in Claude 's existence . Orphaned , the eldest , head of the family at the age of nineteen , he felt himself rudely recalled from the reveries of school to the realities of this world .
He threw himself , therefore , into the love for his little Jehan with the passion of a character already profound , ardent , concentrated ; that poor frail creature , pretty , fair  haired , rosy , and curly ,   that orphan with another orphan for his only support , touched him to the bottom of his heart ; and grave thinker as he was , he set to meditating upon Jehan with an infinite compassion .
He resolved to consecrate himself entirely to a future for which he was responsible in the sight of God , and never to have any other wife , anyother child than the happiness and fortune of his brother .
Therefore , he attached himself more closely than ever to the clerical profession .
It was a sort of investment of good works , which he was effecting in the name of his young brother ; it was a stock of good works which he wished to amass in advance for him , in case the little rogue should some day find himself short of that coin , the only sort which is received at the toll  bar of paradise .
When , still a little fellow , he had dragged himself tortuously and by jerks beneath the shadows of its vaults , he seemed , with his human face and his bestial limbs , the natural reptile of that humid and sombre pavement , upon which the shadow of the Romanesque capitals cast so many strange forms .
It is thus that , little by little , developing always in sympathy with the cathedral , living there , sleeping there , hardly ever leaving it , subject every hour to the mysterious impress , he came to resemble it , he incrusted himself in it , so to speak , and became an integral part of it .
For , in order not to make others laugh , the very moment that he found himself to be deaf , he resolved upon a silence which he only broke when he was alone .
From his very first steps among men , he had felt himself , later on he had seen himself , spewed out , blasted , rejected .
Quasimodo stationed himself in front of this open throat ; he crouched and rose with the oscillations of the bell , breathed in this overwhelming breath , gazed by turns at the deep place , which swarmed with people , two hundred feet below him , and at that enormous , brazen tongue which came , second after second , to howl in his ear .
All of a sudden , the frenzy of the bell seized upon him ; his look became extraordinary ; he lay in wait for the great bell as it passed , as a spider lies in wait for a fly , and flung himself abruptly upon it , with might and main .
He was everywhere about it ; in fact , he multiplied himself on all points of the structure .
When the poor bellringer became deaf , there had been established between him and Claude Frollo , a language of signs , mysterious and understood by themselves alone .
Again , he had set in movement a band of scholars , who had flung themselves upon a wine  shop in classic fashion , quasi ~ classico excitati ~ , had then beaten the tavern  keeper `` with offensive cudgels , '' and joyously pillaged the tavern , even to smashing in the hogsheads of wine in the cellar .
Claude , saddened and discouraged in his human affections , by all this , had flung himself eagerly into the arms of learning , that sister which , at least does not laugh in your face , and which always pays you , though in money that is sometimes a little hollow , for the attention which you have paid to her .
Then he had penetrated further , lower , beneath all that finished , material , limited knowledge ; he had , perhaps , risked his soul , and had seated himself in the cavern at that mysterious table of the alchemists , of the astrologers , of the hermetics , of which Averros , Gillaume de Paris , and Nicolas Flamel hold the end in the Middle Ages ; and which extends in the East , by the light of the seven  branched candlestick , to Solomon , Pythagoras , and Zoroaster .
Furthermore , it is certain that the archdeacon had established himself in that one of the two towers which looks upon the Grve , just beside the frame for the bells , a very secret little cell , into which no one , not even the bishop , entered without his leave , it was said .
By profession as well as by character , he had always held himself aloof from women ; he seemed to hate them more than ever .
The archdeacon had just seated himself , by the light of a three  jetted copper lamp , before a vast coffer crammed with manuscripts .
`` Monsieur , '' returned the archdeacon , " if that be your motive , you would have done as well not to put yourself out of breath climbing my staircase .
`` Whose archdeacon I am ? '' Dom Claude contented himself with replying , with tranquil hauteur .
Nevertheless , if the desire possesses you of putting yourself under discipline at your age , and of deciphering the formidable alphabet of the sages , come to me ; it is well , I will make the effort .
We will content ourselves with the fragments of the book of Hermes which we have here .
When the memory of the first races felt itself overloaded , when the mass of reminiscences of the human race became so heavy and so confused that speech naked and flying , ran the risk of losing them on the way , men transcribed them on the soil in a manner which was at once the most visible , most durable , and most natural .
While Daedalus , who is force , measured ; while Orpheus , who is intelligence , sang ;   the pillar , which is a letter ; the arcade , which is a syllable ; the pyramid , which is a word ,   all set in movement at once by a law of geometry and by a law of poetry , grouped themselves , combined , amalgamated , descended , ascended , placed themselves side by side on the soil , ranged themselves in stories in the sky , until they had written under the dictation of the general idea of an epoch , those marvellous books which were also marvellous edifices : the Pagoda of Eklinga , the Rhamseion of Egypt , the Temple of Solomon .
The hieroglyph deserts the cathedral , and betakes itself to blazoning the donjon keep , in order to lend prestige to feudalism .
Thought was then free only in this manner ; hence it never wrote itself out completely except on the books called edifices .
Thought , under the form of edifice , could have beheld itself burned in the public square by the hands of the executioner , in its manuscript form , if it had been sufficiently imprudent to risk itself thus ; thought , as the door of a church , would have been a spectator of the punishment of thought as a book .
Having thus only this resource , masonry , in order to make its way to the light , flung itself upon it from all quarters .
All other arts obeyed , and placed themselves under the discipline of architecture .
There was nothing down to poor poetry ,   properly speaking , that which persisted in vegetating in manuscripts ,   which was not forced , in order to make something of itself , to come and frame itself in the edifice in the shape of a hymn or of prose ; the same part , after all , which the tragedies of AEschylus had played in the sacerdotal festivals of Greece ; Genesis , in the temple of Solomon .
In the Hindu , Egyptian , or Romanesque architecture , one feels the priest , nothing but the priest , whether he calls himself Brahmin , Magian , or Pope .
Human thought discovers a mode of perpetuating itself , not only more durable and more resisting than architecture , but still more simple and easy .
Now it converts itself into a flock of birds , scatters itself to the four winds , and occupies all points of air and space at once .
And when one observes that this mode of expression is not only the most conservative , but also the most simple , the most convenient , the most practicable for all ; when one reflects that it does not drag after it bulky baggage , and does not set in motion a heavy apparatus ; when one compares thought forced , in order to transform itself into an edifice , to put in motion four or five other arts and tons of gold , a whole mountain of stones , a whole forest of timber  work , a whole nation of workmen ; when one compares it to the thought which becomes a book , and for which a little paper , a little ink , and a pen suffice ,   how can one be surprised that human intelligence should have quitted architecture for printing ?
So they emancipate themselves , break the yoke of the architect , and take themselves off , each one in its own direction .
Thought emancipates itself in all directions at the same time as the arts .
With Michael Angelo dead , what does this miserable architecture , which survived itself in the state of a spectre , do ?
Now , we ask , which of the three arts has really represented human thought for the last three centuries ? which translates it ? which expresses not only its literary and scholastic vagaries , but its vast , profound , universal movement ? which constantly superposes itself , without a break , without a gap , upon the human race , which walks a monster with a thousand legs ?   Architecture or printing ?
Let the reader now imagine what an investment of funds it would require to rewrite the architectural book ; to cause thousands of edifices to swarm once more upon the soil ; to return to those epochs when the throng of monuments was such , according to the statement of an eye witness , `` that one would have said that the world in shaking itself , had cast off its old garments in order to cover itself with a white vesture of churches . '' ~ Erat enim ut si mundus , ipse excutiendo semet , rejecta vetustate , candida ecclesiarum vestem indueret ~ .
He had clung to it , he had incorporated himself with it , he had so identified himself with it that he had escaped that fury for change which possessed Louis XI . , a tormenting and industrious king , whose policy it was to maintain the elasticity of his power by frequent appointments and revocations .
Add to this the pleasure of displaying himself in rides about the city , and of making his fine military costume , which you may still admire sculptured on his tomb in the abbey of Valmont in Normandy , and his morion , all embossed at Montlhry , stand out a contrast against the parti  colored red and tawny robes of the aldermen and police .
He could not have told himself .
He 's eating the plaintiff , he 's eating the suits , he eats , he chews , he crams , he fills himself .
Thanks to this precaution , which he always was careful to take at the moment when on the point of beginning an examination , he knew beforehand the names , titles , and misdeeds of the accused , made cut and dried responses to questions foreseen , and succeeded in extricating himself from all the windings of the interrogation without allowing his deafness to be too apparent .
Hence he took great care to conceal his deafness from the eyes of all , and he generally succeeded so well that he had reached the point of deluding himself , which is , by the way , easier than is supposed .
Explain yourself upon all these points .  Clerk , have you written down what the prisoner has said thus far ? "
" So this is as much as to say , perverse and thieving knave that you are , that you permit yourself to be lacking in respect towards the Auditor of the Chtelet , to the magistrate committed to the popular police of Paris , charged with searching out crimes , delinquencies , and evil conduct ; with controlling all trades , and interdicting monopoly ; with maintaining the pavements ; with debarring the hucksters of chickens , poultry , and water  fowl ; of superintending the measuring of fagots and other sorts of wood ; of purging the city of mud , and the air of contagious maladies ; in a word , with attending continually to public affairs , without wages or hope of salary !
And he seated himself , utterly breathless , wiping away the great drops of sweat which fell from his brow and drenched , like tears , the parchments spread out before him .
This was too much ; the provost could no longer restrain himself .
However , at the moment when Master Florian Barbedienne was reading the sentence in his turn , before signing it , the clerk felt himself moved with pity for the poor wretch of a prisoner , and , in the hope of obtaining some mitigation of the penalty , he approached as near the auditor 's ear as possible , and said , pointing to Quasimodo , `` That man is deaf . ''
And , meanwhile , four mounted sergeants , who have just posted themselves at the four sides of the pillory , have already concentrated around themselves a goodly proportion of the populace scattered on the Place , who condemn themselves to immobility and fatigue in the hope of a small execution .
This little cell had been celebrated in Paris for nearly three centuries , ever since Madame Rolande de la Tour  Roland , in mourning for her father who died in the Crusades , had caused it to be hollowed out in the wall of her own house , in order to immure herself there forever , keeping of all her palace only this lodging whose door was walled up , and whose window stood open , winter and summer , giving all the rest to the poor and to God .
At her death , at the moment when she was passing to the other sepulchre , she had bequeathed this one in perpetuity to afflicted women , mothers , widows , or maidens , who should wish to pray much for others or for themselves , and who should desire to inter themselves alive in a great grief or a great penance .
The majority had contented themselves with holding the memory of Rolande sacred , and converting her rags into relics .
To confine ourselves to the cell in the Tour  Roland , we must say that it had never lacked recluses .
Some serious motive , no doubt , prevented his biting it ( the cake ) , for he contented himself with gazing tenderly at it .
Gallantry claimed her once more ; men came to see la Chantefleurie ; she found customers again for her merchandise , and out of all these horrors she made baby clothes , caps and bibs , bodices with shoulder  straps of lace , and tiny bonnets of satin , without even thinking of buying herself another coverlet .   Master Eustache , I have already told you not to eat that cake .   It is certain that little Agnes , that was the child 's name , a baptismal name , for it was a long time since la Chantefleurie had had any surname   it is certain that that little one was more swathed in ribbons and embroideries than a dauphiness of Dauphiny !
The wise people said to the foolish : `` Do n't go there ! '' and then went themselves on the sly .
It was the monstrous child of some gypsy woman , who had given herself to the devil .
La Chantefleurie flung herself upon the little shoe , all that remained to her of all that she loved .
She had clung to it as to life itself .
Monseigneur the archbishop interested himself in the child of Egypt , exorcised it , blessed it , removed the devil carefully from its body , and sent it to Paris , to be exposed on the wooden bed at Notre  Dame , as a foundling . "
It was , in fact , a melancholy spectacle which presented itself to the eyes of the two women , as they gazed through the grating of the Rat  Hole , neither stirring nor breathing .
What shall we do to rouse her ? `` Eustache , who , up to that moment had been diverted by a little carriage drawn by a large dog , which had just passed , suddenly perceived that his three conductresses were gazing at something through the window , and , curiosity taking possession of him in his turn , he climbed upon a stone post , elevated himself on tiptoe , and applied his fat , red face to the opening , shouting , '' Mother , let me see too ! "
Every limb was trembling , her voice quivered , her eyes flashed , she had raised herself upon her knees ; suddenly she extended her thin , white hand towards the child , who was regarding her with a look of astonishment . `` Take away that child ! '' she cried .
A moment later , however , she moved , and they beheld her drag herself , on her knees and elbows , to the corner where the little shoe was .
`` Can she have killed herself ? '' said Gervaise , venturing to pass her head through the air  hole . " Sister !
It amused itself with watching the pillory , a very simple sort of monument , composed of a cube of masonry about six feet high and hollow in the interior .
They were forced to content themselves with those four stretches of rubble work , backed with sandstone , and a wretched stone gibbet , meagre and bare , on one side .
He had allowed himself to be led , pushed , carried , lifted , bound , and bound again .
During this gayety , a man in the livery of the city , short of stature and robust of mien , mounted the platform and placed himself near the victim .
Here , as in the Grand Hall , the women rendered themselves particularly prominent .
But as soon as the mule was near enough to the pillory to allow of its rider recognizing the victim , the priest dropped his eyes , beat a hasty retreat , spurred on rigorously , as though in haste to rid himself of humiliating appeals , and not at all desirous of being saluted and recognized by a poor fellow in such a predicament .
It is certain that a vague and indistinct desire to please the handsome officer animated them all , that his splendid uniform was the target of all their coquetries , and that from the moment he presented himself , there existed among them a secret , suppressed rivalry , which they hardly acknowledged even to themselves , but which broke forth , none the less , every instant , in their gestures and remarks .
Each one felt herself , in some sort , wounded in her beauty .
`` My dear , '' continued Fleur  de  Lys , with decided sharpness , `` You will get yourself taken up by the sumptuary police for your gilded girdle . ''
Every day , an hour before sunset , the archdeacon ascended the staircase to the tower , and shut himself up in this cell , where he sometimes passed whole nights .
The crowd was swarming around her ; from time to time , a man accoutred in red and yellow made them form into a circle , and then returned , seated himself on a chair a few paces from the dancer , and took the goat 's head on his knees .
This garment presented itself , I took it , and I left my ancient black smock , which , for a hermetic like myself , was far from being hermetically closed .
What would you have ? it is an eclipse . Apollo himself tended the flocks of Admetus . "
All at once his deep  set eye assumed so sagacious and penetrating an expression , that Gringoire felt himself , so to speak , searched to the bottom of the soul by that glance .
She believed herself to be hated , in all the city , by but two persons , of whom she often spoke in terror : the sacked nun of the Tour  Roland , a villanous recluse who cherished some secret grudge against these gypsies , and who cursed the poor dancer every time that the latter passed before her window ; and a priest , who never met her without casting at her looks and words which frightened her .
Every morning , he set out from the lair of the thieves , generally with the gypsy ; he helped her make her collections of targes  and little blanks   in the squares ; each evening he returned to the same roof with her , allowed her to bolt herself into her little chamber , and slept the sleep ofthe just . A very sweet existence , taking it all in all , he said , and well adapted to revery .
On arriving in the lofty bell chamber , Quasimodo gazed for some time at the six bells and shook his head sadly , as though groaning over some foreign element which had interposed itself in his heart between them and him .
It chanced that upon a fine morning in this same month of March , I think it was on Saturday the 29th , Saint Eustache 's day , our young friend the student , Jehan Frollo du Moulin , perceived , as he was dressing himself , that his breeches , which contained his purse , gave out no metallic ring . `` Poor purse , '' he said , drawing it from his fob , " what ! not the smallest parisis ! how cruelly the dice , beer  pots , and Venus have depleted thee !
He dressed himself sadly .
The Petit  Pont traversed , the Rue Neuve  Sainte  Genevive crossed , Jehan de Molendino found himself in front of Notre  Dame .
Something very similar to Faust 's cell presented itself to Jehan 's view , when he ventured his head through the half  open door .
`` Hence , '' continued the priest , " one wretched thought is sufficient to render a man weak and beside himself !
The archdeacon returned and seated himself in his armchair , and placed his head on both his hands , as a sick man does , whose head is heavy and burning .
This was a formidable exordium . Jehan braced himself for a rough encounter .
A malicious page amused himself by splashing the scholars , by making his horse gallop through the mire ! "
Hide yourself quickly under the furnace , and do not breathe . "
The scholar concealed himself ; just then a happy idea occurred to him .
The first point which struck the eye of our Jehan ( who , as the reader will readily surmise , had ensconced himself in his nook in such a manner as to enable him to see and hear everything at his good pleasure ) was the perfect sadness of the garments and the visage of this new  corner .
He had made the latter a sign to seat himself on a stool near the door , and , after several moments of a silence which appeared to be a continuation of a preceding meditation , he said to him in a rather patronizing way , `` Good day , Master Jacques . ''
`` I will tell you that hereafter , '' he stammered , in a voice that was barely articulate ; then he resumed with an effort , `` Busy yourself with Marc Cenaine . ''
At that moment , a bewildered fly which was seeking the March sun , flung itself through the net and became entangled there .
Thou wert flying towards learning , light , the sun . Thou hadst no other care than to reach the open air , the full daylight of eternal truth ; but in precipitating thyself towards the dazzling window which opens upon the other world ,   upon the world of brightness , intelligence , and science   blind fly ! senseless , learned man ! thou hast not perceived that subtle spider 's web , stretched by destiny betwixt the light and thee   thou hast flung thyself headlong into it , and now thou art struggling with head broken and mangled wings between the iron antennae of fate !
How many systems vainly fling themselves buzzing against that eternal pane ! "
`` It is a cat of mine , '' said the archdeacon , quickly , `` who is regaling herself under there with a mouse , ''
He stamped his foot when he found himself on the ground once again . `` Oh ! '' said he , " good and honorable pavement of Paris , cursed staircase , fit to put the angels of Jacob 's ladder out of breath !
What was I thinking of to thrust myself into that stone gimlet which pierces the sky ; all for the sake of eating bearded cheese , and looking at the bell  towers of Paris through a hole in the wall ! "
Dom Claude started , interrupted himself and , to the great amazement of Charmolue , turned round and beheld his brother Jehan accosting a tall officer at the door of the Gondelaurier mansion .
`` Horns and thunder yourself ! '' replied the student . `` Come now , fair captain , whence comes this overflow of fine words ? ''
He heard them singing at the top of their lungs the ancient refrain ,   The children of the Petits Carreaux let themselves be hung like calves .
Only at intervals did some little ragged boy raise himself on tiptoe as far as the ledge , and hurl into the drinking  shop , that ancient , jeering hoot , with which drunken men were then pursued : `` Aux Houls , saouls , saouls , saouls ! ''
This mantle he had just purchased of the old  clothes man , in the vicinity of the `` Eve 's Apple , '' no doubt to protect himself from the cold of the March evening , possibly also , to conceal his costume .
The man in the mantle went and stationed himself on the watch under a porch on the other side of the street .
`` Captain Phoebus de Chteaupers , thou liest ! '' Any one who could have beheld at that moment the captain 's inflamed countenance , his leap backwards , so violent that he disengaged himself from the grip which held him , the proud air with which he clapped his hand on his swordhilt , and , in the presence of this wrath the gloomy immobility of the man in the cloak ,   any one who could have beheld this would have been frightened .
So I will betake myself to my rendezvous ; it is for seven o 'clock , as you know . " Here Phoebus scratched his ear .
When he recovered himself , Phoebus and Esmeralda were alone seated on the wooden coffer beside the lamp which made these two youthful figures and a miserable pallet at the end of the attic stand out plainly before the archdeacon 's eyes .
I love my captain . " Phoebus again profited by the opportunity to impress upon her beautiful bent neck a kiss which made the young girl straighten herself up as scarlet as a poppy .
Phoebus returned and seated himself beside her , but much closer than before .
It is I. Look at me ; it is the little one whom thou wilt surely not repulse , who comes , who comes herself to seek thee .
Gringoire himself was not disinclined to regard this as altogether alarming and probable .
Suddenly it caught sight of the gypsy girl , and leaping over the table and the head of a clerk , in two bounds it was at her knees ; then it rolled gracefully on its mistress 's feet , soliciting a word or a caress ; but the accused remained motionless , and poor Djali himself obtained not a glance .
`` He is destroying himself ! '' he cried aloud ; `` You see well that he does not know what he is doing . ''
A counsellor having remarked that the gentlemen were fatigued , and that it would be a long time to wait until the torture was at an end , the president replied that a magistrate mustknow how to sacrifice himself to his duty .
`` What an annoying and vexatious hussy , '' said an aged judge , `` to get herself put to the question when one has not supped ! ''
Pray take the trouble to seat yourself on this bed .
The unfortunate girl felt herself so utterly abandoned by God and men , that her head fell upon her breast like an inert thing which has no power in itself .
`` Take that off ! '' she cried angrily ; and drawing herself up , with her hair all dishevelled : `` Mercy ! '' She darted from the bed to fling herself at the feet of the king 's procurator , but her leg was fast in the heavy block of oak and iron , and she sank down upon the boot , more crushed than a bee with a lump of lead on its wing .
And she fell back upon the leather bed , dying , doubled up , allowing herself to hang suspended from the strap buckled round her waist .
She had dragged herself to her place .
When Charmolue had installed himself in a magisterial manner in his own , he seated himself , then rose and said , without exhibiting too much self  complacency at his success ,   `` The accused has confessed all . ''
All at once , in the middle of a fine period , he interrupted himself , and his glance , ordinarily so gentle and even stupid , became menacing .
So saying , he pointed to the little goat , who , on seeing Charmolue gesticulating , had , in point of fact , thought it appropriate to do the same , and had seated himself on his haunches , reproducing to the best of his ability , with his forepaws and his bearded head the pathetic pantomine of the king 's procurator in the ecclesiastical court .
He put on his cap again and seated himself .
She had a recollection of a sentence of death pronounced somewhere , against some one , then of having been herself carried away , and of waking up in darkness and silence , chilled to the heart .
She had dragged herself along on her hands . Then iron rings that cut her ankles , and chains had rattled .
Then she had seated herself on that straw and , sometimes , for the sake of changing her attitude , on the last stone step in her dungeon .
Yes , I was happy , at least I believed myself to be so .
In a few moments , I felt the gross things of earth flee far away , and I found myself once more calm , quieted , and serene , in the presence of the tranquil radiance of eternal truth .
Surprised , intoxicated , charmed , I allowed myself to gaze upon thee .
" Already half fascinated , I tried to cling fast to something and hold myself back from falling .
I drew myself up ; I fled ; but alas ! something within me had fallen never to rise again , something had come upon me from which I could not flee . "
" Unable to rid myself of it , since I heard your song humming ever in my head , beheld your feet dancing always on my breviary , felt even at night , in my dreams , your form in contact with my own , I desired to see you again , to touch you , to know who you were , to see whether I should really find you like the ideal image which I had retained of you , to shatter my dream , perchance , with reality .
Then   how stop myself on that slope of hell ?   then I no longer belonged to myself .
But every evil thought is inexorable , and insists on becoming a deed ; but where I believed myself to be all powerful , fate was more powerful than I. Alas ! it is fate which has seized you and delivered you to the terrible wheels of the machine which I had constructed doubly . Listen .
You think yourself unhappy ; alas ! alas ! you know not what unhappiness is .
The priest dragged himself towards her on his knees .
Oh ! save yourself ! spare me ! "
The young girl flung herself upon him like a raging tigress , and pushed him upon the steps of the staircase with supernatural force .
Nothing shall unite us ! not hell itself !
She smiles upon it , she kisses it , she talks to it ; she asks herself whether there can actually be a foot so tiny ; and if the child be absent , the pretty shoe suffices to place the sweet and fragile creature before her eyes .
She was somewhat aroused by it , knotted her hair upon her ears in order to deafen herself , and resumed her contemplation , on her knees , of the inanimate object which she had adored for fifteen years .
Oh ! I will writhe on the earth , I will break the stones with my forehead , and I will damn myself , and I will curse you , Lord , if you keep my child from me ! you see plainly that my arms are all bitten , Lord !
The unhappy woman flung herself upon that shoe ; her consolation and her despair for so many years , and her vitals were rent with sobs as on the first day ; because , for a mother who has lost her child , it is always the first day .
Thistime , on the contrary , she drew herself upright with a start , and listened eagerly .
`` They are going to hang a gypsy to  day . '' With the abrupt leap of that spider which we have seen fling itself upon a fly at the trembling of its web , she rushed to her air  hole , which opened as the reader knows , on the Place de Grve .
A ladder had , in fact , been raised up against the permanent gibbet , and the hangman 's assistant was busying himself with adjusting the chains which had been rusted by the rain .
But youth had gained the upper hand ; and , as frequently happens , in spite of prognostications and diagnoses , nature had amused herself by saving the sick man under the physician 's very nose .
Hence , one fine morning , feeling himself better , he had left his golden spurs with the leech as payment , and had slipped away .
Justice , at that epoch , troubled itself very little about the clearness and definiteness of a criminal suit .
Superstitious , and not given to devoutness , like every soldier who is only a soldier , when he came to question himself about this adventure , he did not feel assured as to the goat , as to the singular fashion in which he had met La Esmeralda , as to the no less strange manner in which she had allowed him to divine her love , as to her character as a gypsy , and lastly , as to the surly monk .
Fashionable society of that day hardly knew the name of the victim who passed by at the corner of the street , and it was the populace at the most who regaled themselves with this coarse fare .
The noble damsel herself was more charming than ever .
Here Phoebus , whose imagination was endowed with but mediocre power of creation , began to find himself in a quandary as to a means of extricating himself for his prowess .
The escort ranged themselves in line on both sides .
They untied her hands , made her alight , accompanied by her goat , which had also been unbound , and which bleated with joy at finding itself free : and they made her walk barefoot on the hard pavement to the foot of the steps leading to the door .
She only recovered life and force when she beheld the priest make a sign to her guards to withdraw , and himself advance alone towards her .
`` Phoebus ! '' she cried wildly , `` can it be you believe it ? '' A monstrous thought had just presented itself to her .
He was handsome ; he , that orphan , that foundling , that outcast , he felt himself august and strong , he gazed in the face of that society from which he was banished , and in which he had so powerfully intervened , of that human justice from which he had wrenched its prey , of all those tigers whose jaws were forced to remain empty , of those policemen , those judges , those executioners , of all that force of the king which he , the meanest of creatures , had just broken , with the force of God .
Finally , he made his appearance for the third time upon the summit of the tower where hung the great bell ; from that point he seemed to be showing to the entire city the girl whom he had saved , and his voice of thunder , that voice which was so rarely heard , and which he never heard himself , repeated thrice with frenzy , even to the clouds : " Sanctuary !
He continued his flight as long as he could see , when he turned round , the turreted enclosure of the University , and the rare houses of the suburb ; but , when , at length , a rise of ground had completely concealed from him that odious Paris , when he could believe himself to be a hundred leagues distant from it , in the fields , in the desert , he halted , and it seemed to him that he breathed more freely .
He stirred up in the depths of his heart all his hatred , all his malevolence ; and , with the cold glance of a physician who examines a patient , he recognized the fact that this malevolence was nothing but vitiated love ; that love , that source of every virtue in man , turned to horrible things in the heart of a priest , and that a man constituted like himself , in making himself a priest , made himself a demon .
There was another moment when , while laughing diabolically at himself , he represented to himself la Esmeralda as he had seen her on that first day , lively , careless , joyous , gayly attired , dancing , winged , harmonious , and la Esmeralda of the last day , in her scanty shift , with a rope about her neck , mounting slowly with her bare feet , the angular ladder of the gallows ; he figured to himself this double picture in such a manner .that he gave vent to a terrible cry .
Sometimes he flung himself face downward on the , earth , and tore up the young blades of wheat with his nails .
Towards the hour of sunset , he examined himself again , and found himself nearly mad .
He believed himself to be far away from Paris ; on taking his bearings , he perceived that he had only circled the enclosure of the University .
When he heard the brisk challenge of the men  at  arms of the abbey , around the crenelated , circumscribing wall of Saint  Germain , he turned aside , took a path which presented itself between the abbey and the lazar  house of the bourg , and at the expiration of a few minutes found himself on the verge of the Pr  aux  Clercs .
Claude , in the state of hallucination in which he found himself , believed that he saw , that he saw with his actual eyes , the bell tower of hell ; the thousand lights scattered over the whole height of the terrible tower seemed to him so many porches of the immense interior furnace ; the voices and noises which escaped from it seemed so many shrieks , so many death groans .
After a few strides he found himself on the Pont Saint  Michel .
Dom Claude had barely time to fling himself on the ground in order that he might not be met , stared in the face and recognized by his brother .
The crescent of the moon , in her flight upward from the horizon , had paused at the moment , on the summit of the light hand tower , and seemed to have perched itself , like a luminous bird , on the edge of the balustrade , cut out in black trefoils .
He flung himself eagerly upon the holy book in the hope of finding some consolation , or some encouragement there .
On reading these gloomy words , he felt that which a blind man feels when he feels himself pricked by the staff which he has picked up .
He felt so many monstrous vapors pass and discharge themselves in his brain , that it seemed to him that his head had become one of the chimneys of hell .
All at once , he felt a freshness on his face , and found himself at the door of the highest gallery .
When she had passed on , he began to descend the staircase again , with the slowness which he had observed in the spectre , believing himself to be a spectre too , haggard , with hair on end , his extinguished lamp still in his hand ; and as he descended the spiral steps , he distinctly heard in his ear a voice laughing and repeating ,  
She dared not look at him , and she surrendered herself to her fate .
She saw that she was in Notre  Dame ; she remembered having been torn from the hands of the executioner ; that Phoebus was alive , that Phoebus loved her no longer ; and as these two ideas , one of which shed so much bitterness over the other , presented themselves simultaneously to the poor condemned girl ; she turned to Quasimodo , who was standing in front of her , and who terrified her ; she said to him ,   `` Why have you saved me ? ''
She made haste to dress herself .
She found herself alone once more , meditating upon the singular words of this almost monstrous being , and struck by the sound of his voice , which was so hoarse yet so gentle .
Stay , I have placed myself behind the wall .
When I compare myself to you , I feel a very great pity for myself , poor unhappy monster that I am !
An unreasonable explanation , but she contented herself with it , because she needed to believe that Phoebus still loved her , and loved her alone .
She took care to dress herself in the morning in the corner of her cell for fear some inhabitants of the neighboring attics might see her through the window .
She often reproached herself for not feeling a gratitude which should close her eyes , but decidedly , she could not accustom herself to the poor bellringer .
On another occasion he presented himself at the door of the cell ( which he never entered ) at the moment when la Esmeralda was singing an old Spanish ballad , the words of which she did not understand , but which had lingered in her ear because the gypsy women had lulled her to sleep with it when she was a little child .
By degrees , however , her terror disappeared , and she yielded herself wholly to the slow and melancholy air which she was singing . He remained on his knees with hands clasped , as in prayer , attentive , hardly breathing , his gaze riveted upon the gypsy 's brilliant eyes .
He had placed himself in that position in order to spare the young girl , as far as possible , the displeasure of seeing him .
The young man and the young girl , so far as our deaf man could judge , without hearing a single one of their words , appeared to abandon themselves to a very tender tte  a  tte .
He made a motion to fling himself on the captain .
Then he drew himself up stiffly and said ,   `` Oh ! how happy you are to have some one who loves you ! ''
Moreover , Quasimodo did not deceive himself on this point .
She troubled herself very little about it .
He had reconciled himself to la Esmeralda 's death .
When he heard this news , he shut himself in his cell in the cloister .
From that window , situated in the cloister , he could see la Esmeralda 's chamber . He often saw herself with her goat , sometimes with Quasimodo .
He asked himself what motive could have impelled Quasimodo to save her .
A moment later she felt a touch along her body which made her shudder so that she straightened herself up in a sitting posture , wide awake and furious .
Almost at the same instant he felt himself raised by a vigorous arm .
He flung himself on the arm which held the knife , crying : `` Quasimodo ! '' He forgot , at that moment of distress , that Quasimodo was deaf .
As soon as Pierre Gringoire had seen how this whole affair was turning , and that there would decidedly be the rope , hanging , and other disagreeable things for the principal personages in this comedy , he had not cared to identify himself with the matter further .
The outcasts with whom he had remained , reflecting that , after all , it was the best company in Paris ,   the outcasts had continued to interest themselves in behalf of the gypsy .
He also occupied himself with annotating the fine work of Baudry  le  Rouge , Bishop of Noyon and Tournay , De Cupa Petrarum , which had given him a violent passion for architecture , an inclination which had replaced in his heart his passion for hermeticism , of which it was , moreover , only a natural corollary , since there is an intimate relation between hermeticism and masonry .
`` And who the devil , '' resumed the poet , " has amused himself with soliciting a decree of reintegration ?
`` I ask nothing better , Dom Claude ; but what if I entangle myself in some villanous affair ? ''
I do not see why I should get myself hanged in some one else 's place . "
Jehan , allow yourself to be punished at the discretion of the master .
The very children were arming themselves , and there were even cripples in bowls who , in armor and cuirass , made their way between the legs of the drinkers , like great beetles .
`` Be quick ! make haste , arm yourselves ! we set out on the march in an hour ! '' said Clopin Trouillefou to his thieves .
Have you seen him make himself breathless on the big bell on a grand Pentecost festival ! ~ Corne du Pre ~ ! it is very fine !
My mother wanted to make an officer of me ; my father , a sub  deacon ; my aunt , a councillor of inquests ; my grandmother , prothonotary to the king ; my great aunt , a treasurer of the short robe ,   and I have made myself an outcast .
Meanwhile , the vagabonds continued to arm themselves and whisper at the other end of the dram  shop .
As he threw himself back on the bosom of the wench beside him , he exclaimed ,  
Comrade ! you have the air of a merchant of tennis  balls ; and you come and sit yourself beside me !
At the most , he gazed uneasily after Dom Claude when the latter ascended the staircase of the tower ; but the archdeacon had abstained from presenting himself again before the gypsy 's eyes .
It is probable that this singular procession , which seemed so desirous of concealing itself under profound darkness , maintained a silence no less profound .
Then his fears returned to him , the idea of an attempt against the gypsy presented itself once more to his mind .
No boat , no issue !   There was but one thing to be done ; to allow himself to be killed on the threshold of Notre  Dame , to resist at least until succor arrived , if it should arrive , and not to trouble la Esmeralda 's sleep .
Clopin Trouillefou had placed himself at the apex with the Duke of Egypt , our friend Jehan , and the most daring of the scavengers .
They betook themselves to the principal door of the church , ascended the steps , and were soon to be seen squatting under the arch , working at the door with pincers and levers ; a throng of vagabonds followed them to help or look on .
" Throat of God ! are the canons defending themselves ?
The windows were immediately closed , and the poor bourgeois , who had hardly had time to cast a frightened glance on this scene of gleams and tumult , returned , perspiring with fear to their wives , asking themselves whether the witches ' sabbath was now being held in the parvis of Notre  Dame , or whether there was an assault of Burgundians , as in ' 64 . Then the husbands thought of theft ; the wives , of rape ; and all trembled .
Evidently , the bishop was defending himself , and they only battered the door with the more rage , in spite of the stones which cracked skulls right and left .
He had run up and down along the gallery for several minutes like a madman , surveying from above , the compact mass of vagabonds ready to hurl itself on the church , demanding the safety of the gypsy from the devil or from God .
Thus , as soon as they began to batter the grand door , the shower of rough blocks of stone began to fall , and it seemed to them that the church itself was being demolished over their heads .
Independently of the projectiles which he had piled upon the balustrade , he had collected a heap of stones on the platform itself .
All at once , at the moment when they were grouping themselves round the ram for a last effort , each one holding his breath and stiffening his muscles in order to communicate all his force to the decisive blow , a howl more frightful still than that which had burst forth and expired beneath the beam , rose among them .
`` Churches have been known to defend themselves thus all by themselves , '' he remarked with a sigh .
At the sight of this line of cuirassed backs , undulating as they rose through the gloom , one would have pronounced it a serpent with steel scales , which was raising itself erect in front of the church .
He found himself in the gallery with the formidable bellringer , alone , separated from his companions by a vertical wall eighty feet high .
Jehan had then concealed himself behind a stone king , not daring to breathe , and fixing upon the monstrous hunchback a frightened gaze , like the man , who , when courting the wife of the guardian of a menagerie , went one evening to a love rendezvous , mistook the wall which he was to climb , and suddenly found himself face to face with a white bear .
Jehan prepared himself for a rough shock , but the deaf man remained motionless ; only he had turned towards the scholar and was looking at him .
When the scholar beheld himself disarmed , stripped , weak , and naked in those terrible hands , he made no attempt to speak to the deaf man , but began to laugh audaciously in his face , and to sing with his intrepid heedlessness of a child of sixteen , the then popular ditty : 
He felt himself lost amid all this grandeur .
During the king 's absence , several despatches had been placed on his table , and he broke the seals himself .
At the moment when he finished it , the door opened and gave passage to a new personage , who precipitated himself into the chamber , crying in affright ,  
He controlled himself and said with tranquil severity ,  
He rubbed his hands , he laughed with that inward mirth which makes the countenance beam ; he was unable to dissimulate his joy , although he endeavored at moments to compose himself .
He corrected himself . `` What is the bailiff 's feudal jurisdiction ? ''
This time he did not correct himself .
Here he interrupted himself abruptly , bit his lips as though to take back his thought which had already half escaped , bent his piercing eyes in turn on each of the five persons who surrounded him , and suddenly grasping his hat with both hands and staring full at it , he said to it : `` Oh ! I would burn you if you knew what there was in my head . ''
`` How do you permit yourself , knave , to go and besiege our friend , monsieur the bailiff of the palace , and what have you to say concerning this popular agitation ? ''
He perceived from the king 's cold and indifferent mien that there was no other resource than something very pathetic , and he flung himself at the feet of Louis XI . , exclaiming , with gestures of despair :  
I am not the man to fling myself into those clouds which break out into seditious clamor .
So saying , the unhappy Gringoire kissed the king 's slippers , and Guillaume Rym said to Coppenole in a low tone : " He doth well to drag himself on the earth .
And without troubling himself about the Jupiter of Crete , the hosier replied with a heavy smile , and his eyes fixed on Gringoire : " Oh ! that 's it exactly !
The king 's good humor since the revolt against the bailiff had been announced to him , made itself apparent in every way .
In November , ' 73 , by letters given to Gergeole , we instituted you keeper of the Wood of Vincennes , in the place of Gilbert Acle , equerry ; in ' 75 , gruyer  of the forest of Rouvray  lez  Saint  Cloud , in the place of Jacques le Maire ; in ' 78 , we graciously settled on you , by letters patent sealed doubly with green wax , an income of ten livres parisis , for you and your wife , on the Place of the Merchants , situated at the School Saint  Germain ; in ' 79 , we made you gruyer of the forest of Senart , in place of that poor Jehan Daiz ; then captain of the Chteau of Loches ; then governor of Saint  Quentin ; then captain of the bridge of Meulan , of which you cause yourself to be called comte .
But Advoyer Scharnachtal hurled himself on the handsome duke with his battle  club and his people , and when the glittering Burgundian army came in contact with these peasants in bull hides , it flew in pieces like a pane of glass at the blow of a pebble .
Louis XI. returned and seated himself , saying , with a smile ,   `` Ah ! here they have only got as far as the bailiffs . '' At that instant Olivier le Daim returned .
`` Against you , sire ? ' The aged king rose erect and straight as a young man ,   '' Explain yourself , Olivier !
Ah ! messieurs , louts of Paris , do you fling yourselves thus against the crown of France , the sanctity of Notre  Dame , and the peace of this commonwealth !
Here , as though seized with a sudden idea , he flung himself on his knees before his chair , took off his hat , placed it on the seat , and gazing devoutly at one of the leaden amulets which loaded it down ,
The brave deaf man , assailed on all sides , had lost , if not all courage , at least all hope of saving , not himself ( he was not thinking of himself ) , but the gypsy .
They defended themselves like desperate men .
Caught on the flank , by the Rue Saint  Pierre  aux  Boeufs , and in the rear through the Rue du Parvis , driven to bay against Notre  Dame , which they still assailed and Quasimodo defended , at the same time besiegers and besieged , they were in the singular situation in which Comte Henri Harcourt , ~ Taurinum obsessor idem et obsessus ~ , as his epitaph says , found himself later on , at the famous siege of Turin , in 1640 , between Prince Thomas of Savoy , whom he was besieging , and the Marquis de Leganez , who was blockading him .
The king 's cavaliers , in whose midst Phoebus de Chteaupers bore himself valiantly , gave no quarter , and the slash of the sword disposed of those who escaped the thrust of the lance .
Men , women , children , hurled themselves on the cruppers and the breasts of the horses , and hung there like cats , with teeth , finger nails and toe nails .
But little by little the first vapors of terror had been dissipated ; from the constantly increasing noise , and from many other signs of reality , she felt herself besieged not by spectres , but by human beings .
No sooner had he entered than it rubbed itself gently against his knees , covering the poet with caresses and with white hairs , for it was shedding its hair .
She was obliged to content herself with this explanation .
She allowed herself to be led away .
The man was the last to step in . Then he cut the boat 's moorings , pushed it from the shore with a long boat  hook , and , seizing two oars , seated himself in the bow , rowing with all his might towards midstream .
He took a position in the stern ; and the young girl , whom the stranger inspired with an indefinable uneasiness , seated herself close to the poet .
But the man in black finally recovered himself , seized the oars once more and began to row against the current .
Thus she remained for a moment , stunned , watching the water flow past ; when she gradually returned to her senses , she found herself alone on the wharf with the unknown .
The poor gypsy shivered when she beheld herself alone with this man .
She had no more resistance left in her , she allowed herself to be dragged along , running while he walked .
She tore herself from his hands and fell at the foot of the gibbet , embracing that funereal support , then she half turned her beautiful head , and looked at the priest over her shoulder .
Above all things , do not speak to me of the officer !   I would cast myself at your knees , I would kiss not your feet , but the earth which is under your feet ; I would sob like a child , I would tear from my breast not words , but my very heart and vitals , to tell you that I love you ;   all would be useless , all !   And yet you have nothing in your heart but what is tender and merciful .
He flung himself on his knees to receive with adoration the word , possibly a tender one , which was on the point of issuing from her lips .
She thought herself victorious , and continued ,  
The young girl felt herself seized suddenly by the elbow .
Panting with terror , she tried to disengage herself .
The young girl passed her arm through the opening ; the recluse threw herself on that hand , pressed her lips to it and there remained , buried in that kiss , giving no other sign of life than a sob which heaved her breast from time to time .
The gypsy threw herself with anguish into the arms of the sacked nun .
Hide yourself in this corner .
The mother rose quickly and went to post herself before her window , in order to stop it up .
She had flung the poor gypsy , half dead , into the corner of the cellar , and had placed herself once more at the window with both hands resting on the angle of the sill like two claws .
Five or six of the provost 's men armed themselves with picks and crowbars , and Tristan betook himself , in company with them , towards the window .
The recluse had gone and seated herself by her daughter , covering her with her body , in front of her , with staring eyes , listening to the poor child , who did not stir , but who kept murmuring in a low voice , these words only , " Phoebus !
She threw herself upon it , she tried to hold it back ; she scratched the stone with her nails , but the massive block , set in movement by six men , escaped her and glided gently to the ground along the iron levers .
The mother offered no resistance , only she dragged herself towards her daughter and threw herself bodily upon her .
Then she shook herself and shrieked in a loud and heartrending voice : " No ! no !
Without uttering a cry , she raised herself erect with a terrible expression ; then she flung herself upon the hand of the executioner , like a beast on its prey , and bit it .
Quasimodo , left alone in that vast Notre  Dame , so besieged and tumultuous but a short time before , once more betook himself to the cell where the gypsy had slept for so many weeks under his guardianship .
All at once , he crushed his torch under his foot , and , without uttering a word , without giving vent to a sigh , he flung himself at full speed , head foremost against the wall , and fell fainting on the floor .
When he recovered his senses , he threw himself on the bed and rolling about , he kissed frantically the place where the young girl had slept and which was still warm ; he remained there for several moments asmotionless as though he were about to expire ; then he rose , dripping with perspiration , panting , mad , and began to beat his head against the wall with the frightful regularity of the clapper of his bells , and the resolution of a man determined to kill himself .
At length he fell a second time , exhausted ; he dragged himself on his knees outside the cell , and crouched down facing the door , in an attitude of astonishment .
The bellringer retreated several paces behind the archdeacon , and suddenly hurling himself upon him with fury , with his huge hands he pushed him by the back over into the abyss over which Dom Claude was leaning .
It was on this retreating angle that miserable archdeacon exhausted himself .
There he hung , embracing the gutter , hardly breathing , no longer stirring , making no longer any other movements than that mechanical convulsion of the stomach , which one experiences in dreams when one fancies himself falling .
In the Parvis there were several groups of curious good people , who were tranquilly seeking to divine who the madman could be who was amusing himself in so strange a manner .
He stiffened himself upon the spout , pushed against the wall with both his knees , clung to a crevice in the stones with his hands , and succeeded in climbing back with one foot , perhaps ; but this effort made the leaden beak on which he rested bend abruptly .
`` I want neither to stay here nor to be spoken to by you until you 've introduced yourself . '' `` I meant it for your own good , '' said the stranger and opened the door , this time without being asked .
She was showing an inquisitiveness that really made it seem like she was going senile . `` I want to see Mrs. Grubach ... , '' said K. , making a movement as if tearing himself away from the two men - even though they were standing well away from him - and wanted to go .
K. found himself , without intending it , in a mute dialogue with Franz , but then slapped his hand down on his papers and said , `` Here are my identity documents . ''
`` It 's probably exists only in your heads , '' said K. , he wanted , in some way , to insinuate his way into the thoughts of the policemen , to re-shape those thoughts to his benefit or to make himself at home there .
K. stopped talking with them ; do I , he thought to himself , do I really have to carry on getting tangled up with the chattering of base functionaries like this ? - and they admit themselves that they are of the lowest position .
If you take our advice , you wo n't tire yourself out thinking about things to no purpose , you need to pull yourself together as there 's a lot that 's going to required of you .
He threw himself down on his bed , and from the dressing table he took the nice apple that he had put there the previous evening for his breakfast .
It puzzled K. , at least it puzzled him looking at it from the policemen 's point of view , that they had made him go into the room and left him alone there , where he had ten different ways of killing himself .
At the same time , though , he asked himself , this time looking at it from his own point of view , what reason he could have to do so .
It would have been so pointless to kill himself that , even if he had wanted to , the pointlessness would have made him unable .
They could watch now , if they wanted , and see how he went over to the cupboard in the wall where he kept a bottle of good schnapps , how he first emptied a glass of it in place of his breakfast and how he then took a second glassful in order to give himself courage , the last one just as a precaution for the unlikely chance it would be needed .
`` Well that 's alright by me if it makes things go any faster , '' said K. He opened the wardrobe himself , spent a long time searching through all the clothes , and chose his best black suit which had a short jacket that had greatly surprised those who knew him , then he also pulled out a fresh shirt and began , carefully , to get dressed .
He secretly told himself that he had succeeded in speeding things up by letting the policemen forget to make him have a bath .
And the three of them did immediately retreat a few steps , the old pair even found themselves behind the man who then concealed them with the breadth of his body and seemed , going by the movements of his mouth , to be saying something incomprehensible into the distance .
Kaminer got to the hat and K. , as he often had to do at the bank , forcibly reminded himself that the grin was not deliberate , that he in fact was n't able to grin deliberately .
Kaminer ran to the corner to summon it , and the two others were making obvious efforts to keep K. diverted when Kullich pointed to the doorway of the house on the other side of the street where the large man with the blonde goatee beard appeared and , a little embarrassed at first at letting himself be seen in his full height , stepped back to the wall and leant against it .
K. was cross with Kullich for pointing out this man whom he had already seen himself , in fact whom he had been expecting .
This showed that K. was not very attentive , and he resolved to watch himself more carefully in this respect .
Nonetheless , he gave it no thought as he twisted himself round and leant over onto the rear shelf of the car to catch sight of the supervisor and the policemen if he could .
In particular , there was nothing to fear from the three bank officials , they had immersed themselves back into their paperwork and there was no alteration to be seen in them .
If I had got up as soon as I was awake without letting myself get confused because Anna was n't there , if I 'd got up and paid no regard to anyone who might have been in my way and come straight to you , if I 'd done something like having my breakfast in the kitchen as an exception , asked you to bring my clothes from my room , in short , if I had behaved sensibly then nothing more would have happened , everything that was waiting to happen would have been stifled .
In the bank , for example , I am well prepared , nothing of this sort could possibly happen to me there , I have my own assistant there , there are telephones for internal and external calls in front of me on the desk , I continually receive visits from people , representatives , officials , but besides that , and most importantly , I 'm always occupied with my work , that 's to say I 'm always alert , it would even be a pleasure for me to find myself faced with something of that sort .
`` That 's how young people are ! '' said Mrs. Grubach in to excuse herself .
`` It is odd , '' said Miss Brstner , `` that I 'm forced to forbid you to do something that you ought to have forbidden yourself to do , namely to come into my room when I 'm not here . ''
`` What 's too vague ? '' asked K. Then he remembered himself and asked , `` Would you like me to show you what it was like ? '' He wanted to move in some way but did not want to leave .
Ah yes , I 'm forgetting myself , the most important person of all , so I 'm standing here in front of the table. the supervisor is sitting extremely comfortably with his legs crossed and his arm hanging over the backrest here like some layabout .
K. was too engrossed in his role and slowly called out , `` Josef K. ! . '' It was not as loud as he had threatened , but nonetheless , once he had suddenly called it out , the cry seemed gradually to spread itself all round the room .
He had hardly pulled himself together when he jumped over to Miss Brstner and took her hand .
But when he reached the door he came to a halt as if he had n't expected to find a door there , Miss Brstner made use of that moment to get herself free , open the door , slip out into the hallway and gently say to K. from there , " Now , come along , please .
He would be given the number of the building where he was to present himself , which was in a street in a suburb well away from the city centre which K. had never been to before .
He was only speaking at the side of the telephone receiver while he waited for his connection , but in giving this invitation the deputy director was humbling himself .
K. forced himself to answer , but his thoughts were mainly about that Sunday , how it would be best to get there for nine o 'clock in the morning as that was the time that courts always start work on weekdays .
All of them seemed to be looking at him , surprised at seeing their superior running ; it was a kind of pride that made K. want to go on foot , this was his affair and the idea of any help from strangers , however slight , was repulsive to him , he also wanted to avoid asking for anyone 's help because that would initiate them into the affair even if only slightly . And after all , he had no wish at all to humiliate himself before the committee by being too punctual .
It was usually a woman who opened the door , heard the enquiry and turned to somebody in the room who would raise himself from the bed .
There were many who thought it must be very important for K. to find Lanz the joiner and thought long about it , naming a joiner who was not called Lanz or giving a name that had some vague similarity with Lanz , or they asked neighbours or accompanied K. to a door a long way away where they thought someone of that sort might live in the back part of the building or where someone would be who could advise K. better than they could themselves .
He passed through between two men who were talking beside the door - one of them held both hands far out in front of himself making the movements of counting out money , the other looked him closely in the eyes - and someone took him by the hand . It was a small , red-faced youth .
K. let himself be led by him , and it turned out that there was - surprisingly in a densely packed crowd of people moving to and fro - a narrow passage which may have been the division between two factions ; this idea was reinforced by the fact that in the first few rows to the left and the right of him there was hardly any face looking in his direction , he saw nothing but the backs of people directing their speech and their movements only towards members of their own side .
Many of them had brought pillows that they had put between their heads and the ceiling so that they would not hurt themselves pressed against it .
K. had decided he would do more watching than talking , so he did not defend himself for supposedly having come late , and simply said , `` Well maybe I have arrived late , I 'm here now . '' There followed loud applause , once more from the right hand side of the hall .
This reply was followed by laughter among the right hand faction down in the hall , it was so hearty that K. could n't stop himself joining in with it .
The people supported themselves with their hands on their knees and shook as if suffering a serious attack of coughing .
The judge had become quite cross but seemed to have no power over those below him in the hall , he tried to reduce what harm had been done in the gallery and jumped up threatening them , his eyebrows , until then hardly remarkable , pushed themselves up and became big , black and bushy over his eyes .
In fact he had done more than that and brought three junior employees from the bank where I work into the lady 's room ; they had made themselves busy interfering with some photographs that belonged to the lady and causing a mess .
K. could only see that a man had pulled her into a corner by the door and was pressing himself against her .
`` So , '' called out K , throwing his arms in the air as if this sudden realisation needed more room , " all of you are working for this organisation , I see now that you are all the very bunch of cheats and liars I 've just been speaking about , you 've all pressed yourselves in here in order to listen in and snoop on me , you gave the impression of having formed into factions , one of you even applauded me to test me out , and you wanted to learn how to trap an innocent man !
Well , I hope you have n't come here for nothing , I hope you 've either had some fun from someone who expected you to defend his innocence or else - let go of me or I 'll hit you , `` shouted K. to a quivery old man who had pressed himself especially close to him - '' or else that you 've actually learned something .
`` I merely wanted to draw your attention , '' said the judge , `` to something you seem not yet to be aware of : today , you have robbed yourself of the advantages that a hearing of this sort always gives to someone who is under arrest . ''
" Could you really do that without placing yourself in danger ?
So that 's what all this is about , thought K. , she 's offering herself to me , she 's as degenerate as everything else around here , she 's had enough of the court officials , which is understandable I suppose , and so she approaches any stranger and makes compliments about his eyes .
And what 's more , I expect they have already noticed themselves , or even if they have n't , this affair is really not so important to me as they think .
She suddenly interrupted herself and lay her hand on K. 's as if she wanted to calm him down , and whispered , `` Be quiet , Berthold is watching us . ''
In the doorway to the courtroom stood a young man , he was short , his legs were not quite straight , and he continually moved his finger round in a short , thin , red beard with which he hoped to make himself look dignified .
The student briefly looked away from the woman to glance at K. over his shoulder but did allow himself to be disturbed , in fact he even pressed himself close to the woman and put his arms around her .
What a position it was that K. found himself in , compared with the judge sitting up in the attic ! K. , at the bank , had a big office with an ante-room , and had an enormous window through which he could look down at the activity in the square .
`` Does your wife , then , not share some of the responsibility ? '' asked K. He had to force himself as he asked this question , as he , too , felt so jealous now .
It was her who attached herself to him .
In the meantime , the man whom K. had first approached had pulled himself together and even answered him with a smile .
K. did n't concern himself long with the guard or these people , especially as he saw a turning off the corridor , about half way along it on the right hand side , where there was no door to stop him going that way .
K. had still not looked round at anything at all in the room where he found himself , and it was only when one of the many wooden doors all around him opened that he noticed it .
The young woman smiled too , but lightly tapped the man 's arm with the tips of her fingers as if he had allowed himself too much fun with K.
K. just did not feel like contradicting him .. The girl 's intention may have been good , perhaps she was under instructions to distract him or to give him the chance to collect himself , but the attempt had not worked .
He did not quite reject the idea that he should see a doctor the next time he had the chance , but whatever he did - and this was something on which he could advise himself - he wanted to spend all Sunday mornings in future better than he had spent this one .
" I kept asking myself why it was that Mr. K. took such an interest in Miss Brstner .
He contented himself with merely drinking his coffee and letting Mrs. Grubach feel that she was superfluous .
She would have come herself , but she 's feeling a little unwell today .
Moreover , it was only yesterday , and only very briefly , that she made it clear to me that such a meeting could be of no benefit for yourself either , she feels that it can only have been a matter of chance that such an idea came to you , and that even without any explanations from her , you will very soon come to realise yourself , if you have not done so already , the futility of your idea .
One evening , a few days later , K. was walking along one of the corridors that separated his office from the main stairway - he was nearly the last one to leave for home that evening , there remained only a couple of workers in the light of a single bulb in the dispatch department - when he heard a sigh from behind a door which he had himself never opened but which he had always thought just led into a junk room . He stood in amazement and listened again to establish whether he might not be mistaken .
`` Do n't listen to him , '' said Willem , interrupting himself only to quickly bring his hand to his mouth when it had received a stroke of the cane , " we 're only being punished because you made a complaint against us .
Both of us , me especially , we 'd proved our worth as good police officers over a long period - you 've got to admit yourself that as far as official work was concerned we did the job well - things looked good for us , we had prospects , it 's quite certain that we would 've been made whip-men too , like this one , only he had the luck not to have anyone make a complaint about him , as you really do n't get many complaints like that .
`` Do n't shout like that ! , '' called out K. , unable to prevent himself , and , as he looked anxiously in the direction from which the servitor would come , he gave Franz a shove , not hard , but hard enough for him to fall down unconscious , clawing at the ground with his hands by reflex ; he still did not avoid being hit ; the rod still found him on the floor ; the tip of the rod swang regularly up and down while he rolled to and fro under its blows .
If that had been his intention then it would almost have been easier , K. would have taken his own clothes off and offered himself to the whip-man in the policemen 's place .
He was no longer in any position to help anyone , and the servitors would soon be back ; he did , though , promise himself that he would raise the matter again with somebody and see that , as far as it was in his power , those who really were guilty , the high officials whom nobody had so far dared point out to him , received their due punishment .
`` What 's this that I 've been hearing , Josef ? '' cried K. 's uncle when they were alone , as he sat on the table shoving various papers under himself without looking at them to make himself more comfortable .
`` Uncle Karl , '' said K. , wrenching himself back from his daydreaming , `` I really do n't know what it is you want of me . ''
He would have liked to have been of some help to the chief clerk himself , as the chief clerk was a gentleman , good and honest , but he did not know what it was he could do and merely hoped there would be some influential gentlemen who would take his side .
`` Josef , '' called his uncle trying to disentangle himself from him so that he could stop walking , but K. did not let go , " you 've completely changed , you used to be so astute , are you losing it now ?
Josef , pull yourself together .
K. himself looked on calmly , he was not even disappointed at finding the lawyer unwell , he had been able to do nothing to oppose the enthusiasm his uncle had developed for the matter , he was glad that this enthusiasm had now been distracted without his having to do anything about it .
Fortunately , though , behind the girl , the invalid raised himself up , K. 's uncle made an ugly face as if swallowing something disgusting and then , somewhat calmer , said , " We have naturally not lost our senses , not yet ; if what I am asking for were not possible I would not be asking for it .
And he twisted himself round as if wanting to go into no more negotiations but giving himself a little more time to think .
He interrupted himself , whispered , `` I bet you she 's listening ! '' and sprang over to the door .
But in a tone that was much more committed he went on , " As far as your nephew 's affairs are concerned , this will be an extremely difficult undertaking and I 'd count myself lucky if my strength lasted out long enough for it ; I 'm greatly afraid it wo n't do , but anyway I do n't want to leave anything untried ; if I do n't last out you can always get somebody else .
To be honest , this matters interests me too much , and I ca n't bring myself to give up the chance of taking some part in it .
`` But you work in the High Court , not that court in the attic , '' he had wanted to say but could not bring himself to actually utter it .
`` I 'm afraid I 'll only be able to stay a few minutes more , '' smiled the office director as he spread himself out in the armchair and looked at the clock .
He had hardly stepped into the hallway , finding his bearings in the darkness with his hand still firmly holding the door , when another small hand , much smaller than K. 's own , placed itself on his and gently shut the door .
But despite that , he had himself made to look bigger in the picture as he 's madly vain , just like everyone round here .
`` Just an examining judge once again , '' said K. in disappointment , " the senior officials keep themselves hidden .
`` I 'd be saying too much if I told you that , '' answered Leni . " Please do n't ask for names , but do stop making these mistakes of yours , stop being so unyielding , there 's nothing you can do to defend yourself from this court , you have to confess .
`` That 's alright , then , '' she said , and made herself comfortable on his lap by smoothing out her skirt and adjusting her blouse .
Would she be capable of sacrificing herself for you , though ? "
`` No , '' said K. , " she is n't gentle or friendly , and nor would she be capable of sacrificing herself for me .
Eventually we could n't keep up the pretence any longer , but these are polite and highly capable men , they did n't say anything about it so as to spare my feelings but in the end not even they could continue to force themselves and , as they could n't speak about the matter in hand , they became silent .
And , of course , there 's no way of defending yourself from this , something said in private is indeed in private and can not then be used in public , it 's not something that makes it easy for the defence to keep those gentlemen 's favour .
Bearing all this in mind , does it still surprise K. that the officials are irritated and often express themselves about the litigants in unflattering ways - which is an experience shared by everyone . All the officials are irritated , even when they appear calm .
One lawyer after another was sent out to run up the steps and let himself be thrown down again , offering what resistance he could as long as it was passive resistance , and his colleagues would catch him at the bottom of the steps .
Even if it were possible to improve any detail of it - which is anyway no more than superstitious nonsense - the best that they could achieve , although doing themselves incalculable harm in the process , is that they will have attracted the special attention of the officials for any case that comes up in the future , and the officials are always ready to seek revenge .
Client and trial are both simply taken away from the lawyer ; and then even contact with the court officials wo n't help , however good they are , as they do n't know anything themselves .
It was much better not to give away any details before their time , as in that way K. could only be influenced unfavourably and his hopes might be raised or he might be made too anxious , better just to say that some individuals have spoken very favourably and shown themselves very willing to help , although others have spoken less favourably , but even they have not in any way refused to help .
Maybe everything the lawyer said was quite right , even though he obviously wanted to make himself as conspicuous as possible and probably had never even taken on a case as important as he said K. 's was .
On winter 's mornings such as this , when he was very tired and everything dragged itself lethargically through his head , this belief of his seemed irrefutable .
But now , his uncle had already dragged him to see the lawyer , he had to take account of his family ; his job was no longer totally separate from the progress of the trial , he himself had carelessly - with a certain , inexplicable complacency - mentioned it to acquaintances and others had learned about it in ways he did not know , his relationship with Miss Brstner seemed to be in trouble because of it . In short , he no longer had any choice whether he would accept the trial or turn it down , he was in the middle of it and had to defend himself .
He had been capable of working himself up to his high position in the bank in a relatively short time and to retain it with respect from everyone , now he simply had to apply some of the talents that had made that possible for him to the trial , and there was no doubt that it had to turn out well .
The lawyer had told him , as he talked to him , that that was something unheard of and would probably do him a great deal of harm , but K. could not tolerate any impediment to his efforts where his trial was concerned , and these impediments were probably caused by the lawyer himself .
And K. had indeed , at first , been closely following what the manufacturer was saying , he too was aware of how important the deal was , but unfortunately it did not last , he soon stopped listening , nodded at each of the manufacturer 's louder exclamations for a short while , but eventually he stopped doing even that and did no more than stare at the bald head bent over the papers , asking himself when the manufacturer would finally realise that everything he was saying was useless .
Carefully and slowly turning his eyes upwards , he tried to learn what was taking place above him , took one of the papers from his desk without looking to see what it was , lay it on the flat of his hand and raised it slowly up as he rose up to the level of the two men himself .
K. still had enough control of himself to turn away from the deputy director and direct his friendly , albeit stiff , smile only at the manufacturer , he made no other retaliation , bent down slightly and supported himself with both hands on his desk like a clerk , and watched as the two gentlemen , still talking , took the papers from his desk and disappeared into the manager 's office .
Now , in contrast , if he was to conduct his defence himself , he would have to devote himself entirely to the court - for the time being , at least - success would mean , later on , his complete and conclusive liberation , but if he was to achieve this he would have to place himself , to start with , in far greater danger than he had been in so far .
Did a carefully worked out defence - and any other sort would have made no sense - did a carefully worked out defence not also mean he would need to shut himself off from everything else as much as he could ?
It was true that he was well disposed towards K. , and as soon as he heard about the trial he would probably try to do everything he could to make it easier for him , but he would certainly not devote himself to it . K. at one time had provided the counter-balance to what the deputy director said but the director was now coming more and more under his influence , and the deputy director would also exploit the weakened condition of the director to strengthen his own power .
Maybe considerations of this sort weakened his power of resistance , but it was still necessary not to deceive oneself and to see everything as clearly as it could be seen at that moment .
You 're nearly a lawyer yourself .
And just now , just when he would have to act with all the strength he could muster , now a number of doubts of a sort he had never before known had presented themselves and affected his own vigilance !
Now , at least , he found himself quite unable to understand how he could have intended to write to Titorelli and invite him into the bank .
You 've already seen yourselves how long I 've been delayed .
`` Paint your portrait ? '' she asked , opening her mouth too wide and lightly hitting K. with her hand as if he had said something extraordinarily surprising or clumsy , with both hands she lifted her skirt , which was already very short , and , as fast as she could , she ran off after the other girls whose indistinct shouts lost themselves in the heights .
They stood on both sides of the stairs , pressing themselves against the wall so that K. could get through between them , and smoothed their aprons down with their hands .
Then he shut the door , bowed once more to K. , offered him his hand and introduced himself , saying , `` Titorelli , painter . '' K. pointed to the door , behind which the girls were whispering , and said , `` You seem to be very popular in this building . ''
This impression was augmented by the painter 's asking , `` Were you wanting to buy some pictures or did you want to have yourself painted ? ''
At first K. was about to say , `` He certainly is a judge , '' but he held himself back for the time being and went closer to the picture as if he wanted to study it in detail .
" And he has himself painted in such a grand pose ?
`` Yeah , gentlemen like this are very vain , '' said the painter . " But they have permission from higher up to get themselves painted like this .
K. found the painter 's work more engrossing than he had wanted ; but finally he reproached himself for staying so long without having done anything relevant to his own affair .
K. forewent the opportunity to excuse himself in some way as he did not wish to distract the painter from what he was saying , or else perhaps he did n't want him to get too far above himself and in this way make himself to some extent unattainable , so he asked , `` Is that a publicly acknowledged position ? ''
The painter even seemed to misunderstand why K. remained at the edge of the bed and urged K. to make himself comfortable , and as he hesitated he went over to the bed himself and pressed K. deep down into the bedclothes and pillows .
If I painted all the judges next to each other here on canvas , and you were trying to defend yourself in front of it , you 'd have more success with them than you 'd ever have with the real court . "
`` How do you intend to do that ? '' asked K. `` You did say yourself not long ago that it 's quite impossible to go to the court with reasons and proofs . ''
`` Only impossible for reasons and proofs you take to the court yourself '' said the painter , raising his forefinger as if K. had failed to notice a fine distinction .
The painter did not let himself be distracted , but said , `` In your case , for instance , as you 're totally innocent , this is what I 'll do . ''
But despite these doubts K. forced himself not to interrupt the painter .
At first , K. was astonished at this orderly explanation , but then , just as quietly as the painter , he said , `` I think you 're contradicting yourself . ''
This smile made K. feel as if he were examining not the words of the painter but seeking out inconsistencies in the procedures of the court itself .
When I was a boy I used to listen closely to my father when he told us about court cases at home , and the judges that came to his studio talked about the court , in our circles nobody talks about anything else ; I hardly ever got the chance to go to court myself but always made use of it when I could , I 've listened to countless trials at important stages in their development , I 've followed them closely as far as they could be followed , and I have to say that I 've never seen a single acquittal . "
He had prepared himself even for the fog that he would breathe in through his open mouth .
The painter had leant back and spread himself out in his chair , his nightshirt was wide open , he had pushed his hand inside and was stroking his breast and his sides .
K. placed his hand on his winter overcoat but could not bring himself to put it on .
K. expressed himself in this curt way without any thought , so he was glad when the painter did not take this amiss and picked up a second painting from the floor .
They had clearly seen that the second door of the studio had been opened and had gone around to impose themselves on him from this side .
Someone unlocked the door , but kept himself pressed against it as he called back inside , `` It 's him ! , '' and only then did he open the door properly .
`` Block . I 'm a businessman , '' said the small man , twisting himself round as he thus introduced himself , although K. did not allow him to stop moving .
He felt himself as much at liberty as is normally only felt in foreign parts when speaking with people of lower standing , keeping everything about himself to himself , speaking only casually about the interests of the other , able to raise him to a level above one 's own , but also able , at will , to let him drop again .
`` So you 're also working at the court yourself ? '' asked K. `` That 's just what I want to learn more about . ''
You know yourself what the air is like in those offices . "
`` I expect I 'll have to go there quite often myself now , '' said K. , " although I can hardly expect to be shown the same respect as I was then .
I repeat that all this is just a ridiculous superstition , and in most cases it 's completely disproved by the facts , but when you live in that society it 's hard to hold yourself back from beliefs like that .
He told us all later he thought he could see something in your lips that meant he 'd be convicted himself . "
`` On my lips ? '' asked K. , pulling out a pocket mirror and examining himself . " I can see nothing special about my lips .
`` Do you then have that much contact with each other , exchanging each other 's opinions ? '' said K. `` I 've kept myself completely apart so far . ''
`` Waiting is not pointless , '' said the businessman , " it 's only pointless if you try and interfere yourself .
Most of all , there was lots of Latin , which I ca n't understand , then pages and pages of general appeals to the court , then lots of flattery for particular officials , they were n't named , these officials , but anyone familiar with the court must have been able to guess who they were , then there was self-praise by the lawyer where he humiliated himself to the court in a way that was downright dog-like , and then endless investigations of cases from the past which were supposed to be similar to mine .
It 's best if you do n't let yourself be misled in that way .
She attaches herself to each of them , loves each of them , even seems to be loved by each of them ; then she sometimes entertains me by telling me about them when I allow her to .
The lawyer must have noticed that K. was offering him more resistance than before , as he became silent , giving K. the chance to speak himself , and then , as K. also remained silent , he asked , `` Did you have a particular reason for coming to see me today ? ''
`` Do I understand you rightly ? '' asked the lawyer as he half raised himself in his bed and supported himself with one hand on the pillow .
It was very unwelcome for K. to hear the old man speak in this touching way , as it forced him to explain himself more fully , which he would rather have avoided , and he was aware that it also confused him even though it could never make him reverse his decision .
I would naturally never attempt , considering that you are so much older and more experienced than I am , to convince you of my opinion ; if I have ever unintentionally done so then I beg your forgiveness , but , as you have just said yourself , the circumstances are important enough and it is my belief that my trial needs to be approached with much more vigour than has so far been the case . "
How the lawyer was humiliating himself to K. !
Was it something personal for his uncle 's sake , or did he really see K. 's case as one that was exceptional and hoped to be able to distinguish himself with it , either for K. 's sake or - and this possibility could never be excluded - for his friends at the court ?
But despite that I do n't regret my decision , quite possibly I should have turned more cases away than I did , but it did turn out to be entirely necessary for me to devote myself fully to the cases I did take on , and the successful results showed that it was worth it .
K. could have encouraged to enter , but he had decided to make a final break not only with the lawyer but with everything in his home , so he kept himself motionless .
`` I will , '' said Block , as if speaking to himself to give himself courage , and with a quick glance to the side he kneeled down close beside the bed .
In the silence while he did so , Leni , as she freed herself from K. 's hands , said , " You 're hurting me .
What do you think he 'd say if he learned his trial still has n't begun , if you told him they have n't even rung the bell to announce the start of proceedings ? ' Alright Block , alright , " said the lawyer , as at these words Block had begun to raise himself on his trembling knees and clearly wanted to plead for some explanation .
When he spoke very calmly he understood almost everything , but that was very infrequent , mostly the words gushed from his mouth and he seemed to be enjoying himself so much his head shook .
K. began to anticipate many difficulties , he gave up trying to understand what the Italian said - with the director there , who could understand him so easily , it would have been pointless effort - and for the time being did no more than scowl at the Italian as he relaxed sitting deep but comfortable in the armchair , as he frequently pulled at his short , sharply tailored jacket and at one time lifted his arms in the air and moved his hands freely to try and depict something that K. could not grasp , even though he was leaning forward and did not let the hands out of his sight . K. had nothing to occupy himself but mechanically watch the exchange between the two men and his tiredness finally made itself felt , to his alarm , although fortunately in good time , he once caught himself nearly getting up , turning round and leaving .
Eventually the Italian looked at the clock and jumped up . After taking his leave from the director he turned to K. , pressing himself so close to him that K. had to push his chair back just so that he could move .
As he was tired he wanted to sit down , he went back inside the cathedral , he found something like a small carpet on one of the steps , he moved it with his foot to a nearby pew , wrapped himself up tighter in his coat , put the collar up and sat down .
It was discourteous of the Italian not to come but it was also sensible of him , there would have been nothing to see , they would have had to content themselves with seeking out a few pictures with K. 's electric pocket torch and looking at them one small part at a time .
But under the pulpit - K. grinned in astonishment - there really was a priest standing with his hand on the handrail ready to climb the steps and looking at K. Then he nodded very slightly , so that K. crossed himself and genuflected as he should have done earlier .
`` Yes , '' said K. , he considered how freely he had always given his name in the past , for some time now it had been a burden to him , now there were people who knew his name whom he had never seen before , it had been so nice first to introduce yourself and only then for people to know who you were .
If the priest knew of such a possibility he might , if K. asked him , let him know about it , even though he was part of the court himself and even though , when K. had criticised the court , he had held down his gentle nature and actually shouted at K.
`` Do n't fool yourself , '' said the priest .
`` You fool yourself in the court , '' said the priest , " it talks about this self-deceit in the opening paragraphs to the law . In front of the law there is a doorkeeper .
They see his ideas of what 's inside the law as rather childish , and suppose he 's afraid himself of what he wants to make the man frightened of .
There would be nothing heroic about it if he resisted , if he now caused trouble for these gentlemen , if in defending himself he sought to enjoy his last glimmer of life .
He started walking , which pleased the gentlemen and some of their pleasure conveyed itself to him .
The moonlight glittered and quivered in the water , which divided itself around a small island covered in a densely-piled mass of foliage and trees and bushes .
Beneath them , now invisible , there were gravel paths with comfortable benches where K. had stretched himself out on many summer 's days .
In this way they quickly left the built up area and found themselves in the fields which , in this part of town , began almost without any transition zone .
One morning , when Gregor Samsa woke from troubled dreams , he found himself transformed in his bed into a horrible vermin .
However hard he threw himself onto his right , he always rolled back to where he was .
He felt a slight itch up on his belly ; pushed himself slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better ; found where the itch was , and saw that it was covered with lots of little white spots which he did n't know what to make of ; and when he tried to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder .
Gregor had wanted to give a full answer and explain everything , but in the circumstances contented himself with saying : `` Yes , mother , yes , thank-you , I 'm getting up now . ''
He remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in bed , perhaps caused by lying awkwardly , but that had always turned out to be pure imagination and he wondered how his imaginings would slowly resolve themselves today .
It was a simple matter to throw off the covers ; he only had to blow himself up a little and they fell off by themselves .
He would have used his arms and his hands to push himself up ; but instead of them he only had all those little legs continuously moving in different directions , and which he was moreover unable to control .
If he wanted to bend one of them , then that was the first one that would stretch itself out ; and if he finally managed to do what he wanted with that leg , all the others seemed to be set free and would move about painfully .
The first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body out of the bed , but he had never seen this lower part , and could not imagine what it looked like ; it turned out to be too hard to move ; it went so slowly ; and finally , almost in a frenzy , when he carelessly shoved himself forwards with all the force he could gather , he chose the wrong direction , hit hard against the lower bedpost , and learned from the burning pain he felt that the lower part of his body might well , at present , be the most sensitive .
But when he had at last got his head out of the bed and into the fresh air it occurred to him that if he let himself fall it would be a miracle if his head were not injured , so he became afraid to carry on pushing himself forward the same way .
And he could not knock himself out now at any price ; better to stay in bed than lose consciousness .
It took just as much effort to get back to where he had been earlier , but when he lay there sighing , and was once more watching his legs as they struggled against each other even harder than before , if that was possible , he could think of no way of bringing peace and order to this chaos . He told himself once more that it was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible thing to do would be to get free of it in whatever way he could at whatever sacrifice .
At the same time , though , he did not forget to remind himself that calm consideration was much better than rushing to desperate conclusions .
And so he set himself to the task of swinging the entire length of his body out of the bed all at the same time .
Was it really not enough to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were even necessary - did the chief clerk have to come himself , and did they have to show the whole , innocent family that this was so suspicious that only the chief clerk could be trusted to have the wisdom to investigate it ?
And more because these thoughts had made him upset than through any proper decision , he swang himself with all his force out of the bed .
You barricade yourself in your room , give us no more than yes or no for an answer , you are causing serious and unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and I mention this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in a way that is quite unheard of .
And while Gregor gushed out these words , hardly knowing what he was saying , he made his way over to the chest of drawers - this was easily done , probably because of the practise he had already had in bed - where he now tried to get himself upright .
The first few times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just slid down again , but he finally gave himself one last swing and stood there upright ; the lower part of his body was in serious pain but he no longer gave any attention to it .
Now he let himself fall against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of it with his little legs .
Gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair . Once there he let go of it and threw himself onto the door , holding himself upright against it using the adhesive on the tips of his legs .
He rested there a little while to recover from the effort involved and then set himself to the task of turning the key in the lock with his mouth .
And with the idea that they were all excitedly following his efforts , he bit on the key with all his strength , paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself .
As the key turned round he turned around the lock with it , only holding himself upright with his mouth , and hung onto the key or pushed it down again with the whole weight of his body as needed .
He had first to slowly turn himself around one of the double doors , and he had to do it very carefully if he did not want to fall flat on his back before entering the room .
Gregor 's mother , her hair still dishevelled from bed despite the chief clerk 's being there , looked at his father . Then she unfolded her arms , took two steps forward towards Gregor and sank down onto the floor into her skirts that spread themselves out around her as her head disappeared down onto her breast .
But you , sir , you have a better overview than the rest of the staff , in fact , if I can say this in confidence , a better overview than the boss himself - it 's very easy for a businessman like him to make mistakes about his employees and judge them more harshly than he should .
And you 're also well aware that we travellers spend almost the whole year away from the office , so that we can very easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints , and it 's almost impossible to defend yourself from that sort of thing , we do n't usually even hear about them , or if at all it 's when we arrive back home exhausted from a trip , and that 's when we feel the harmful effects of what 's been going on without even knowing what caused them .
But his sister was not there , Gregor would have to do the job himself .
And without considering that he still was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present state , or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - be understood , he let go of the door ; pushed himself through the opening ; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who , ridiculously , was holding on to the banister with both hands ; but Gregor fell immediately over and , with a little scream as he sought something to hold onto , landed on his numerous little legs .
He had completely forgotten the chief clerk for the moment , but could not help himself snapping in the air with his jaws at the sight of the flow of coffee .
Eventually , though , Gregor realised that he had no choice as he saw , to his disgust , that he was quite incapable of going backwards in a straight line ; so he began , as quickly as possible and with frequent anxious glances at his father , to turn himself round .
When he had nearly finished turning round , still listening to that hissing , he made a mistake and turned himself back a little the way he had just come .
Nor would he ever have allowed Gregor the time to get himself upright as preparation for getting through the doorway .
What he did , making more noise than ever , was to drive Gregor forwards all the harder as if there had been nothing in the way ; it sounded to Gregor as if there was now more than one father behind him ; it was not a pleasant experience , and Gregor pushed himself into the doorway without regard for what might happen .
One side of his body lifted itself , he lay at an angle in the doorway , one flank scraped on the white door and was painfully injured , leaving vile brown flecks on it , soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all by himself , the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the ground . Then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which released him from where he was held and sent him flying , and heavily bleeding , deep into his room .
He pushed himself over to the door , feeling his way clumsily with his antennae - of which he was now beginning to learn the value - in order to see what had been happening there .
If she did n't do it herself he would rather go hungry than draw her attention to it , although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the couch , throw himself at his sister 's feet and beg her for something good to eat .
She had hardly turned her back before Gregor came out again from under the couch and stretched himself .
When explaining things , his father repeated himself several times , partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with these matters himself and partly because Gregor 's mother did not understand everything the first time . From these repeated explanations Gregor learned , to his pleasure , that despite all their misfortunes there was still some money available from the old days .
He could actually have used this surplus money to reduce his father 's debt to his boss , and the day when he could have freed himself from that job would have come much closer , but now it was certainly better the way his father had done things .
Whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money , Gregor would always first let go of the door and then throw himself onto the cool , leather sofa next to it , as he became quite hot with shame and regret .
Gregor went straight to hide himself under the couch , of course , but he had to wait until midday before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than usual .
If she did not think this sheet was necessary then all she had to do was take it off again , as it was clear enough that it was no pleasure for Gregor to cut himself off so completely . She left the sheet where it was .
For the first fourteen days , Gregor 's parents could not bring themselves to come into the room to see him . He would often hear them say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing even though , before , they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat useless and frequently been annoyed with her .
Out of consideration for his parents , Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day , the few square meters of the floor did not give him much room to crawl about , it was hard to just lie quietly through the night , his food soon stopped giving him any pleasure at all , and so , to entertain himself , he got into the habit of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling .
Very soon his sister noticed Gregor 's new way of entertaining himself - he had , after all , left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about - and got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him by removing the furniture that got in his way , especially the chest of drawers and the desk .
The old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair of feeble women to be heaving about , but Gregor listened as they pushed it from its place , his sister always taking on the heaviest part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother 's warnings that she would strain herself .
Gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was happening , it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after all , but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro , their little calls to each other , the scraping of the furniture on the floor , all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed from all sides . With his head and legs pulled in against him and his body pressed to the floor , he was forced to admit to himself that he could not stand all of this much longer .
So , while the women were leant against the desk in the other room catching their breath , he sallied out , changed direction four times not knowing what he should save first before his attention was suddenly caught by the picture on the wall - which was already denuded of everything else that had been on it - of the lady dressed in copious fur . He hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself against its glass , it held him firmly and felt good on his hot belly .
They had not allowed themselves a long rest and came back quite soon ; Grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly carrying her .
She ran into the other room to fetch some kind of smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint ; Gregor wanted to help too - he could save his picture later , although he stuck fast to the glass and had to pull himself off by force ; then he , too , ran into the next room as if he could advise his sister like in the old days ; but he had to just stand behind her doing nothing ; she was looking into various bottles , he startled her when she turned round ; a bottle fell to the ground and broke ; a splinter cut Gregor 's face , some kind of caustic medicine splashed all over him ; now , without delaying any longer , Grete took hold of all the bottles she could and ran with them in to her mother ; she slammed the door shut with her foot .
The maid , of course , had locked herself in her kitchen so that Grete would have to go and answer it . His father had arrived home .
So he fled to the door of his room and pressed himself against it so that his father , when he came in from the hall , could see straight away that Gregor had the best intentions and would go back into his room without delay , that it would not be necessary to drive him back but that they had only to open the door and he would disappear .
He probably did not even know himself what he had in mind , but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high .
Now , as he lurched about in his efforts to muster all the strength he could for running he could hardly keep his eyes open ; his thoughts became too slow for him to think of any other way of saving himself than running ; he almost forgot that the walls were there for him to use although , here , they were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and protrusions - then , right beside him , lightly tossed , something flew down and rolled in front of him .
Another one however , immediately following it , hit squarely and lodged in his back ; Gregor wanted to drag himself away , as if he could remove the surprising , the incredible pain by changing his position ; but he felt as if nailed to the spot and spread himself out , all his senses in confusion .
The last thing he saw was the door of his room being pulled open , his sister was screaming , his mother ran out in front of her in her blouse ( as his sister had taken off some of her clothes after she had fainted to make it easier for her to breathe ) , she ran to his father , her skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground , stumbling over the skirts she pushed herself to his father , her arms around him , uniting herself with him totally - now Gregor lost his ability to see anything - her hands behind his father 's head begging him to spare Gregor 's life .
This is what peace I get in my old age ! " And supported by the two women he would lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load himself , let the women take him to the door , send them off and carry on by himself while Gregor 's mother would throw down her needle and his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and continue being of help to him .
They carried out absolutely everything that the world expects from poor people , Gregor 's father brought bank employees their breakfast , his mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for strangers , his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers , but they just did not have the strength to do any more .
Just by chance one day , rather than any real curiosity , she opened the door to Gregor 's room and found herself face to face with him . He was taken totally by surprise , no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in front of her .
Only if he happened to find himself next to the food that had been prepared for him he might take some of it into his mouth to play with it , leave it there a few hours and then , more often than not , spit it out again .
They do feed themselves . And here I am , dying ! "
What 's more , there was now all the more reason to keep himself hidden as he was covered in the dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest movement ; he carried threads , hairs , and remains of food about on his back and sides ; he was much too indifferent to everything now to lay on his back and wipe himself on the carpet like he had used to do several times a day .
Meanwhile Gregor 's sister had overcome the despair she had fallen into when her playing was suddenly interrupted . She had let her hands drop and let violin and bow hang limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if still playing , but then she suddenly pulled herself together , lay the instrument on her mother 's lap who still sat laboriously struggling for breath where she was , and ran into the next room which , under pressure from her father , the three gentlemen were more quickly moving toward .
Gregor 's father staggered back to his seat , feeling his way with his hands , and fell into it ; it looked as if he was stretching himself out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head kept nodding it could be seen that he was not sleeping at all .
We 've only harmed ourselves by believing it for so long .
In her alarm , which was totally beyond Gregor 's comprehension , his sister even abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her chair as if more willing to sacrifice her own mother than stay anywhere near Gregor . She rushed over to behind her father , who had become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his hands in front of Gregor 's sister as if to protect her .
All he had done was begin to turn round so that he could go back into his room , although that was in itself quite startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help himself do it , repeatedly raising it and striking it against the floor .
`` What now , then ? , '' Gregor asked himself as he looked round in the darkness .
`` Now then , '' said Mr. Samsa , `` let 's give thanks to God for that . '' He crossed himself , and the three women followed his example .
At first , he stood there still , looking at the ground as if the contents of his head were rearranging themselves into new positions .
Such dominions thus acquired are either accustomed to live under a prince , or to live in freedom ; and are acquired either by the arms of the prince himself , or of others , or else by fortune or by ability .
I will leave out all discussion on republics , inasmuch as in another place I have written of them at length , and will address myself only to principalities .
I say at once there are fewer difficulties in holding hereditary states , and those long accustomed to the family of their prince , than new ones ; for it is sufficient only not to transgress the customs of his ancestors , and to deal prudently with circumstances as they arise , for a prince of average powers to maintain himself in his state , unless he be deprived of it by some extraordinary and excessive force ; and if he should be so deprived of it , whenever anything sinister happens to the usurper , he will regain it .
For these reasons Louis the Twelfth , King of France , quickly occupied Milan , and as quickly lost it ; and to turn him out the first time it only needed Lodovico 's own forces ; because those who had opened the gates to him , finding themselves deceived in their hopes of future benefit , would not endure the ill-treatment of the new prince .
It is very true that , after acquiring rebellious provinces a second time , they are not so lightly lost afterwards , because the prince , with little reluctance , takes the opportunity of the rebellion to punish the delinquents , to clear out the suspects , and to strengthen himself in the weakest places .
The general reasons for the first have been discussed ; it remains to name those for the second , and to see what resources he had , and what any one in his situation would have had for maintaining himself more securely in his acquisition than did the King of France .
Upon this , one has to remark that men ought either to be well treated or crushed , because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries , of more serious ones they can not ; therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge .
Again , the prince who holds a country differing in the above respects ought to make himself the head and defender of his less powerful neighbours , and to weaken the more powerful amongst them , taking care that no foreigner as powerful as himself shall , by any accident , get a footing there ; for it will always happen that such a one will be introduced by those who are discontented , either through excess of ambition or through fear , as one has seen already .
Let any one now consider with what little difficulty the king could have maintained his position in Italy had he observed the rules above laid down , and kept all his friends secure and protected ; for although they were numerous they were both weak and timid , some afraid of the Church , some of the Venetians , and thus they would always have been forced to stand in with him , and by their means he could easily have made himself secure against those who remained powerful .
It never occurred to him that by this action he was weakening himself , depriving himself of friends and of those who had thrown themselves into his lap , whilst he aggrandized the Church by adding much temporal power to the spiritual , thus giving it greater authority .
And having committed this prime error , he was obliged to follow it up , so much so that , to put an end to the ambition of Alexander , and to prevent his becoming the master of Tuscany , he was himself forced to come into Italy .
And as if it were not enough to have aggrandized the Church , and deprived himself of friends , he , wishing to have the kingdom of Naples , divides it with the King of Spain , and where he was the prime arbiter in Italy he takes an associate , so that the ambitious of that country and the malcontents of his own should have somewhere to shelter ; and whereas he could have left in the kingdom his own pensioner as king , he drove him out , to put one there who was able to drive him , Louis , out in turn .
Which errors , had he lived , were not enough to injure him had he not made a sixth by taking away their dominions from the Venetians ; because , had he not aggrandized the Church , nor brought Spain into Italy , it would have been very reasonable and necessary to humble them ; but having first taken these steps , he ought never to have consented to their ruin , for they , being powerful , would always have kept off others from designs on Lombardy , to which the Venetians would never have consented except to become masters themselves there ; also because the others would not wish to take Lombardy from France in order to give it to the Venetians , and to run counter to both they would not have had the courage .
Considering the difficulties which men have had to hold to a newly acquired state , some might wonder how , seeing that Alexander the Great became the master of Asia in a few years , and died whilst it was scarcely settled ( whence it might appear reasonable that the whole empire would have rebelled ) , nevertheless his successors maintained themselves , and had to meet no other difficulty than that which arose among themselves from their own ambitions .
Nor is it enough for you to have exterminated the family of the prince , because the lords that remain make themselves the heads of fresh movements against you , and as you are unable either to satisfy or exterminate them , that state is lost whenever time brings the opportunity .
And if his successors had been united they would have enjoyed it securely and at their ease , for there were no tumults raised in the kingdom except those they provoked themselves .
But when cities or countries are accustomed to live under a prince , and his family is exterminated , they , being on the one hand accustomed to obey and on the other hand not having the old prince , can not agree in making one from amongst themselves , and they do not know how to govern themselves .
It behoved him , therefore , to upset this state of affairs and embroil the powers , so as to make himself securely master of part of their states .
The duke , therefore , having acquired the Romagna and beaten the Colonnesi , while wishing to hold that and to advance further , was hindered by two things : the one , his forces did not appear loyal to him , the other , the goodwill of France : that is to say , he feared that the forces of the Orsini , which he was using , would not stand to him , that not only might they hinder him from winning more , but might themselves seize what he had won , and that the king might also do the same .
And because he knew that the past severity had caused some hatred against himself , so , to clear himself in the minds of the people , and gain them entirely to himself , he desired to show that , if any cruelty had been practised , it had not originated with him , but in the natural sternness of the minister .
But let us return whence we started . I say that the duke , finding himself now sufficiently powerful and partly secured from immediate dangers by having armed himself in his own way , and having in a great measure crushed those forces in his vicinity that could injure him if he wished to proceed with his conquest , had next to consider France , for he knew that the king , who too late was aware of his mistake , would not support him .
It was his intention to secure himself against them , and this he would have quickly accomplished had Alexander lived .
On the day that Julius the Second was elected , he told me that he had thought of everything that might occur at the death of his father , and had provided a remedy for all , except that he had never anticipated that , when the death did happen , he himself would be on the point to die .
Therefore , he who considers it necessary to secure himself in his new principality , to win friends , to overcome either by force or fraud , to make himself beloved and feared by the people , to be followed and revered by the soldiers , to exterminate those who have power or reason to hurt him , to change the old order of things for new , to be severe and gracious , magnanimous and liberal , to destroy a disloyal soldiery and to create new , to maintain friendship with kings and princes in such a way that they must help him with zeal and offend with caution , can not find a more lively example than the actions of this man .
Nevertheless , he accompanied his infamies with so much ability of mind and body that , having devoted himself to the military profession , he rose through its ranks to be Praetor of Syracuse .
Being established in that position , and having deliberately resolved to make himself prince and to seize by violence , without obligation to others , that which had been conceded to him by assent , he came to an understanding for this purpose with Amilcar , the Carthaginian , who , with his army , was fighting in Sicily .
Still , if the courage of Agathocles in entering into and extricating himself from dangers be considered , together with his greatness of mind in enduring and overcoming hardships , it can not be seen why he should be esteemed less than the most notable captain .
When the viands and all the other entertainments that are usual in such banquets were finished , Oliverotto artfully began certain grave discourses , speaking of the greatness of Pope Alexander and his son Cesare , and of their enterprises , to which discourse Giovanni and others answered ; but he rose at once , saying that such matters ought to be discussed in a more private place , and he betook himself to a chamber , whither Giovanni and the rest of the citizens went in after him .
And his destruction would have been as difficult as that of Agathocles if he had not allowed himself to be overreached by Cesare Borgia , who took him with the Orsini and Vitelli at Sinigalia , as was stated above . Thus one year after he had committed this parricide , he was strangled , together with Vitellozzo , whom he had made his leader in valour and wickedness .
Some may wonder how it can happen that Agathocles , and his like , after infinite treacheries and cruelties , should live for long secure in his country , and defend himself from external enemies , and never be conspired against by his own citizens ; seeing that many others , by means of cruelty , have never been able even in peaceful times to hold the state , still less in the doubtful times of war .
It is impossible for those who follow the other to maintain themselves .
He who does otherwise , either from timidity or evil advice , is always compelled to keep the knife in his hand ; neither can he rely on his subjects , nor can they attach themselves to him , owing to their continued and repeated wrongs .
He who obtains sovereignty by the assistance of the nobles maintains himself with more difficulty than he who comes to it by the aid of the people , because the former finds himself with many around him who consider themselves his equals , and because of this he can neither rule nor manage them to his liking .
But he who reaches sovereignty by popular favour finds himself alone , and has none around him , or few , who are not prepared to obey him .
It is to be added also that a prince can never secure himself against a hostile people , because of their being too many , whilst from the nobles he can secure himself , as they are few in number .
The worst that a prince may expect from a hostile people is to be abandoned by them ; but from hostile nobles he has not only to fear abandonment , but also that they will rise against him ; for they , being in these affairs more far-seeing and astute , always come forward in time to save themselves , and to obtain favours from him whom they expect to prevail .
Those who so bind themselves , and are not rapacious , ought to be honoured and loved ; those who do not bind themselves may be dealt with in two ways ; they may fail to do this through pusillanimity and a natural want of courage , in which case you ought to make use of them , especially of those who are of good counsel ; and thus , whilst in prosperity you honour them , in adversity you do not have to fear them .
But when for their own ambitious ends they shun binding themselves , it is a token that they are giving more thought to themselves than to you , and a prince ought to guard against such , and to fear them as if they were open enemies , because in adversity they always help to ruin him .
Nabis , Prince of the Spartans , sustained the attack of all Greece , and of a victorious Roman army , and against them he defended his country and his government ; and for the overcoming of this peril it was only necessary for him to make himself secure against a few , but this would not have been sufficient had the people been hostile .
And do not let any one impugn this statement with the trite proverb that `` He who builds on the people , builds on the mud , '' for this is true when a private citizen makes a foundation there , and persuades himself that the people will free him when he is oppressed by his enemies or by the magistrates ; wherein he would find himself very often deceived , as happened to the Gracchi in Rome and to Messer Giorgio Scali in Florence .
But granted a prince who has established himself as above , who can command , and is a man of courage , undismayed in adversity , who does not fail in other qualifications , and who , by his resolution and energy , keeps the whole people encouraged - such a one will never find himself deceived in them , and it will be shown that he has laid his foundations well .
It is necessary to consider another point in examining the character of these principalities : that is , whether a prince has such power that , in case of need , he can support himself with his own resources , or whether he has always need of the assistance of others .
And to make this quite clear I say that I consider those who are able to support themselves by their own resources who can , either by abundance of men or money , raise a sufficient army to join battle against any one who comes to attack them ; and I consider those always to have need of others who can not show themselves against the enemy in the field , but are forced to defend themselves by sheltering behind walls .
Therefore , a prince who has a strong city , and had not made himself odious , will not be attacked , or if any one should attack he will only be driven off with disgrace ; again , because that the affairs of this world are so changeable , it is almost impossible to keep an army a whole year in the field without being interfered with .
And whoever should reply : If the people have property outside the city , and see it burnt , they will not remain patient , and the long siege and self-interest will make them forget their prince ; to this I answer that a powerful and courageous prince will overcome all such difficulties by giving at one time hope to his subjects that the evil will not be for long , at another time fear of the cruelty of the enemy , then preserving himself adroitly from those subjects who seem to him to be too bold .
These princes alone have states and do not defend them ; and they have subjects and do not rule them ; and the states , although unguarded , are not taken from them , and the subjects , although not ruled , do not care , and they have neither the desire nor the ability to alienate themselves .
They are ready enough to be your soldiers whilst you do not make war , but if war comes they take themselves off or run from the foe ; which I should have little trouble to prove , for the ruin of Italy has been caused by nothing else than by resting all her hopes for many years on mercenaries , and although they formerly made some display and appeared valiant amongst themselves , yet when the foreigners came they showed what they were .
Duke Filippo being dead , the Milanese enlisted Francesco Sforza against the Venetians , and he , having overcome the enemy at Caravaggio , allied himself with them to crush the Milanese , his masters .
His father , Sforza , having been engaged by Queen Johanna of Naples , left her unprotected , so that she was forced to throw herself into the arms of the King of Aragon , in order to save her kingdom .
And if the Venetians and Florentines formerly extended their dominions by these arms , and yet their captains did not make themselves princes , but have defended them , I reply that the Florentines in this case have been favoured by chance , for of the able captains , of whom they might have stood in fear , some have not conquered , some have been opposed , and others have turned their ambitions elsewhere . One who did not conquer was Giovanni Acuto , and since he did not conquer his fidelity can not be proved ; but every one will acknowledge that , had he conquered , the Florentines would have stood at his discretion .
And in the beginning of their expansion on land , through not having much territory , and because of their great reputation , they had not much to fear from their captains ; but when they expanded , as under Carmignuola , they had a taste of this mistake ; for , having found him a most valiant man ( they beat the Duke of Milan under his leadership ) , and , on the other hand , knowing how lukewarm he was in the war , they feared they would no longer conquer under him , and for this reason they were not willing , nor were they able , to let him go ; and so , not to lose again that which they had acquired , they were compelled , in order to secure themselves , to murder him .
And although ancient histories may be full of examples , I do not wish to leave this recent one of Pope Julius the Second , the peril of which can not fail to be perceived ; for he , wishing to get Ferrara , threw himself entirely into the hands of the foreigner .
David offered himself to Saul to fight with Goliath , the Philistine champion , and , to give him courage , Saul armed him with his own weapons ; which David rejected as soon as he had them on his back , saying he could make no use of them , and that he wished to meet the enemy with his sling and his knife .
And the way to make ready one 's own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be reflected upon , and if one will consider how Philip , the father of Alexander the Great , and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves , to which rules I entirely commit myself .
For among other evils which being unarmed brings you , it causes you to be despised , and this is one of those ignominies against which a prince ought to guard himself , as is shown later on .
He ought never , therefore , to have out of his thoughts this subject of war , and in peace he should addict himself more to its exercise than in war ; this he can do in two ways , the one by action , the other by study .
Philopoemen , Prince of the Achaeans , among other praises which writers have bestowed on him , is commended because in time of peace he never had anything in his mind but the rules of war ; and when he was in the country with friends , he often stopped and reasoned with them : " If the enemy should be upon that hill , and we should find ourselves here with our army , with whom would be the advantage ?
But to exercise the intellect the prince should read histories , and study there the actions of illustrious men , to see how they have borne themselves in war , to examine the causes of their victories and defeat , so as to avoid the latter and imitate the former ; and above all do as an illustrious man did , who took as an exemplar one who had been praised and famous before him , and whose achievements and deeds he always kept in his mind , as it is said Alexander the Great imitated Achilles , Caesar Alexander , Scipio Cyrus .
Therefore , putting on one side imaginary things concerning a prince , and discussing those which are real , I say that all men when they are spoken of , and chiefly princes for being more highly placed , are remarkable for some of those qualities which bring them either blame or praise ; and thus it is that one is reputed liberal , another miserly , using a Tuscan term ( because an avaricious person in our language is still he who desires to possess by robbery , whilst we call one miserly who deprives himself too much of the use of his own ) ; one is reputed generous , one rapacious ; one cruel , one compassionate ; one faithless , another faithful ; one effeminate and cowardly , another bold and brave ; one affable , another haughty ; one lascivious , another chaste ; one sincere , another cunning ; one hard , another easy ; one grave , another frivolous ; one religious , another unbelieving , and the like .
And I know that every one will confess that it would be most praiseworthy in a prince to exhibit all the above qualities that are considered good ; but because they can neither be entirely possessed nor observed , for human conditions do not permit it , it is necessary for him to be sufficiently prudent that he may know how to avoid the reproach of those vices which would lose him his state ; and also to keep himself , if it be possible , from those which would not lose him it ; but this not being possible , he may with less hesitation abandon himself to them .
And again , he need not make himself uneasy at incurring a reproach for those vices without which the state can only be saved with difficulty , for if everything is considered carefully , it will be found that something which looks like virtue , if followed , would be his ruin ; whilst something else , which looks like vice , yet followed brings him security and prosperity .
Therefore , a prince , not being able to exercise this virtue of liberality in such a way that it is recognized , except to his cost , if he is wise he ought not to fear the reputation of being mean , for in time he will come to be more considered than if liberal , seeing that with his economy his revenues are enough , that he can defend himself against all attacks , and is able to engage in enterprises without burdening his people ; thus it comes to pass that he exercises liberality towards all from whom he does not take , who are numberless , and meanness towards those to whom he does not give , who are few .
A prince , therefore , provided that he has not to rob his subjects , that he can defend himself , that he does not become poor and abject , that he is not forced to become rapacious , ought to hold of little account a reputation for being mean , for it is one of those vices which will enable him to govern .
And a prince should guard himself , above all things , against being despised and hated ; and liberality leads you to both .
This disposition , if he had been continued in the command , would have destroyed in time the fame and glory of Scipio ; but , he being under the control of the Senate , this injurious characteristic not only concealed itself , but contributed to his glory .
Returning to the question of being feared or loved , I come to the conclusion that , men loving according to their own will and fearing according to that of the prince , a wise prince should establish himself on that which is in his own control and not in that of others ; he must endeavour only to avoid hatred , as is noted .
Therefore it is necessary for a prince to understand how to avail himself of the beast and the man .
A prince , therefore , being compelled knowingly to adopt the beast , ought to choose the fox and the lion ; because the lion can not defend himself against snares and the fox can not defend himself against wolves .
But it is necessary to know well how to disguise this characteristic , and to be a great pretender and dissembler ; and men are so simple , and so subject to present necessities , that he who seeks to deceive will always find someone who will allow himself to be deceived .
Therefore it is necessary for him to have a mind ready to turn itself accordingly as the winds and variations of fortune force it , yet , as I have said above , not to diverge from the good if he can avoid doing so , but , if compelled , then to know how to set about it .
Every one sees what you appear to be , few really know what you are , and those few dare not oppose themselves to the opinion of the many , who have the majesty of the state to defend them ; and in the actions of all men , and especially of princes , which it is not prudent to challenge , one judges by the result .
It makes him contemptible to be considered fickle , frivolous , effeminate , mean-spirited , irresolute , from all of which a prince should guard himself as from a rock ; and he should endeavour to show in his actions greatness , courage , gravity , and fortitude ; and in his private dealings with his subjects let him show that his judgments are irrevocable , and maintain himself in such reputation that no one can hope either to deceive him or to get round him .
But concerning his subjects , when affairs outside are disturbed he has only to fear that they will conspire secretly , from which a prince can easily secure himself by avoiding being hated and despised , and by keeping the people satisfied with him , which it is most necessary for him to accomplish , as I said above at length .
And as experience shows , many have been the conspiracies , but few have been successful ; because he who conspires can not act alone , nor can he take a companion except from those whom he believes to be malcontents , and as soon as you have opened your mind to a malcontent you have given him the material with which to content himself , for by denouncing you he can look for every advantage ; so that , seeing the gain from this course to be assured , and seeing the other to be doubtful and full of dangers , he must be a very rare friend , or a thoroughly obstinate enemy of the prince , to keep faith with you .
And further , I consider that a prince ought to cherish the nobles , but not so as to make himself hated by the people .
And here it should be noted that hatred is acquired as much by good works as by bad ones , therefore , as I said before , a prince wishing to keep his state is very often forced to do evil ; for when that body is corrupt whom you think you have need of to maintain yourself - it may be either the people or the soldiers or the nobles - you have to submit to its humours and to gratify them , and then good works will do you harm .
But let us come to Alexander , who was a man of such great goodness , that among the other praises which are accorded him is this , that in the fourteen years he held the empire no one was ever put to death by him unjudged ; nevertheless , being considered effeminate and a man who allowed himself to be governed by his mother , he became despised , the army conspired against him , and murdered him .
After this there remained for Severus , who wished to make himself master of the whole empire , two difficulties ; one in Asia , where Niger , head of the Asiatic army , had caused himself to be proclaimed emperor ; the other in the west where Albinus was , who also aspired to the throne .
And as he considered it dangerous to declare himself hostile to both , he decided to attack Niger and to deceive Albinus .
But let us come to Commodus , to whom it should have been very easy to hold the empire , for , being the son of Marcus , he had inherited it , and he had only to follow in the footsteps of his father to please his people and soldiers ; but , being by nature cruel and brutal , he gave himself up to amusing the soldiers and corrupting them , so that he might indulge his rapacity upon the people ; on the other hand , not maintaining his dignity , often descending to the theatre to compete with gladiators , and doing other vile things , little worthy of the imperial majesty , he fell into contempt with the soldiers , and being hated by one party and despised by the other , he was conspired against and was killed .
1 . Some princes , so as to hold securely the state , have disarmed their subjects ; others have kept their subject towns distracted by factions ; others have fostered enmities against themselves ; others have laid themselves out to gain over those whom they distrusted in the beginning of their governments ; some have built fortresses ; some have overthrown and destroyed them .
But on this question one can not speak generally , for it varies so much with the individual ; I will only say this , that those men who at the commencement of a princedom have been hostile , if they are of a description to need assistance to support themselves , can always be gained over with the greatest ease , and they will be tightly held to serve the prince with fidelity , inasmuch as they know it to be very necessary for them to cancel by deeds the bad impression which he had formed of them ; and thus the prince always extracts more profit from them than from those who , serving him in too much security , may neglect his affairs .
CHAPTER XXI - HOW A PRINCE SHOULD CONDUCT HIMSELF SO AS TO GAIN RENOWN
Further , always using religion as a plea , so as to undertake greater schemes , he devoted himself with pious cruelty to driving out and clearing his kingdom of the Moors ; nor could there be a more admirable example , nor one more rare .
A prince is also respected when he is either a true friend or a downright enemy , that is to say , when , without any reservation , he declares himself in favour of one party against the other ; which course will always be more advantageous than standing neutral ; because if two of your powerful neighbours come to blows , they are of such a character that , if one of them conquers , you have either to fear him or not .
In either case it will always be more advantageous for you to declare yourself and to make war strenuously ; because , in the first case , if you do not declare yourself , you will invariably fall a prey to the conqueror , to the pleasure and satisfaction of him who has been conquered , and you will have no reasons to offer , nor anything to protect or to shelter you .
Thus it will always happen that he who is not your friend will demand your neutrality , whilst he who is your friend will entreat you to declare yourself with arms .
But when a prince declares himself gallantly in favour of one side , if the party with whom he allies himself conquers , although the victor may be powerful and may have him at his mercy , yet he is indebted to him , and there is established a bond of amity ; and men are never so shameless as to become a monument of ingratitude by oppressing you .
But if he with whom you ally yourself loses , you may be sheltered by him , and whilst he is able he may aid you , and you become companions on a fortune that may rise again .
A prince ought also to show himself a patron of ability , and to honour the proficient in every art .
Further , he ought to entertain the people with festivals and spectacles at convenient seasons of the year ; and as every city is divided into guilds or into societies , he ought to hold such bodies in esteem , and associate with them sometimes , and show himself an example of courtesy and liberality ; nevertheless , always maintaining the majesty of his rank , for this he must never consent to abate in anything .
It is that of flatterers , of whom courts are full , because men are so self-complacent in their own affairs , and in a way so deceived in them , that they are preserved with difficulty from this pest , and if they wish to defend themselves they run the danger of falling into contempt .
With these councillors , separately and collectively , he ought to carry himself in such a way that each of them should know that , the more freely he shall speak , the more he shall be preferred ; outside of these , he should listen to no one , pursue the thing resolved on , and be steadfast in his resolutions .
Therefore , do not let our princes accuse fortune for the loss of their principalities after so many years ' possession , but rather their own sloth , because in quiet times they never thought there could be a change ( it is a common defect in man not to make any provision in the calm against the tempest ) , and when afterwards the bad times came they thought of flight and not of defending themselves , and they hoped that the people , disgusted with the insolence of the conquerors , would recall them .
But confining myself more to the particular , I say that a prince may be seen happy to-day and ruined to-morrow without having shown any change of disposition or character .
Changes in estate also issue from this , for if , to one who governs himself with caution and patience , times and affairs converge in such a way that his administration is successful , his fortune is made ; but if times and affairs change , he is ruined if he does not change his course of action .
But a man is not often found sufficiently circumspect to know how to accommodate himself to the change , both because he can not deviate from what nature inclines him to do , and also because , having always prospered by acting in one way , he can not be persuaded that it is well to leave it ; and , therefore , the cautious man , when it is time to turn adventurous , does not know how to do it , hence he is ruined ; but had he changed his conduct with the times fortune would not have changed .
For my part I consider that it is better to be adventurous than cautious , because fortune is a woman , and if you wish to keep her under it is necessary to beat and ill-use her ; and it is seen that she allows herself to be mastered by the adventurous rather than by those who go to work more coldly .
And although singly they are good , altogether they will be much better when they find themselves commanded by their prince , honoured by him , and maintained at his expense .
DURING the whole of a dull , dark , and soundless day in the autumn of the year , when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens , I had been passing alone , on horseback , through a singularly dreary tract of country , and at length found myself , as the shades of the evening drew on , within view of the melancholy House of Usher .
I was aware , however , that his very ancient family had been noted , time out of mind , for a peculiar sensibility of temperament , displaying itself , through long ages , in many works of exalted art , and manifested , of late , in repeated deeds of munificent yet unobtrusive charity , as well as in a passionate devotion to the intricacies , perhaps even more than to the orthodox and easily recognizable beauties , of musical science .
There can be no doubt that the consciousness of the rapid increase of my superstition - for why should I not so term it ? - served mainly to accelerate the increase itself .
The room in which I found myself was very large and lofty .
It was with difficulty that I could bring myself to admit the identity of the wan being before me with the companion of my early boyhood .
It displayed itself in a host of unnatural sensations .
Hitherto she had steadily borne up against the pressure of her malady , and had not betaken herself finally to bed ; but on the closing in of the evening of my arrival at the house , she succumbed ( as her brother told me at night with inexpressible agitation ) to the prostrating power of the destroyer ; and I learned that the glimpse I had obtained of her person would thus probably be the last I should obtain - that the lady , at least while living , would be seen by me no more .
It was , perhaps , the narrow limits to which he thus confined himself upon the guitar which gave birth , in great measure , to the fantastic character of the performances .
They must have been , and were , in the notes , as well as in the words of his wild fantasias ( for he not unfrequently accompanied himself with rhymed verbal improvisations ) , the result of that intense mental collectedness and concentration to which I have previously alluded as observable only in particular moments of the highest artificial excitement .
Shaking this off with a gasp and a struggle , I uplifted myself upon the pillows , and , peering earnestly within the intense darkness of the chamber , hearkened - I know not why , except that an instinctive spirit prompted me - to certain low and indefinite sounds which came , through the pauses of the storm , at long intervals , I knew not whence .
Overpowered by an intense sentiment of horror , unaccountable yet unendurable , I threw on my clothes with haste ( for I felt that I should sleep no more during the night ) , and endeavored to arouse myself from the pitiable condition into which I had fallen , by pacing rapidly to and fro through the apartment .
Could I have judged , indeed , by the wild overstrained air of vivacity with which he hearkened , or apparently hearkened , to the words of the tale , I might well have congratulated myself upon the success of my design .
`` And now , the champion , having escaped from the terrible fury of the dragon , bethinking himself of the brazen shield , and of the breaking up of the enchantment which was upon it , removed the carcass from out of the way before him , and approached valorously over the silver pavement of the castle to where the shield was upon the wall ; which in sooth tarried not for his full coming , but fell down at his feet upon the silver floor , with a mighty great and terrible ringing sound . ''
The storm was still abroad in all its wrath as I found myself crossing the old causeway .
He could not forgive himself for that silly smile .
What can I do ? ' he asked himself in despair , and could find no answer .
He was incapable of self-deception and could not persuade himself that he repented of his conduct .
' Never mind , sir - things will shape themselves . '
' Shape themselves , eh ? '
' To go , or not to go ? ' he asked himself ; and his inner consciousness answered that he ought not to go : that it could only result in hypocrisy ; that it was impossible to restore their relations because it was impossible to render her attractive and capable of exciting love , or to turn him into an old man incapable of love .
' Nevertheless it will have to be done sooner or later . After all , things ca n't remain as they are , ' he said , trying to brace himself .
She was trying to do what she had attempted ten times already during those three days , to sort out her own and her children 's clothes to take to her mother 's ; but she could not bring herself to do it , and said again as she had done after each previous attempt , that things could not remain as they were - that she must do something to punish and humiliate him , and to revenge herself if only for a small part of the pain he had caused her .
She felt that it was impossible for her to leave ; but still deceiving herself , she went an sorting the things and pretending that she really would go .
Oblonsky could think calmly of his wife , could hope that ' things would shape themselves ' as Matthew had said , and could calmly read his paper and drink his coffee , but when he saw her worn , suffering face , and heard her tone , resigned and despairing , he felt a choking sensation . A lump rose to his throat and tears glistened in his eyes .
She wished to go away , but staggered and held on to the back of a chair to support herself .
She seemed to be trying to recollect herself , as if she did not know where she was or what she had to do .
Oblonsky sighed , wiped his face , and with soft steps left the room . ' Matthew says `` things will shape themselves , '' - but how ?
' Well , perhaps things will shape themselves - `` shape themselves '' !
When the Report had been read , Oblonsky rose , stretching himself , and , paying tribute to the Liberalism of the times , took out a cigarette before leaving the Office to go to his private room .
' On the one hand it 's simply playing ! They play at being a parliament , and I am neither young enough nor old enough to amuse myself with toys .
Levin 's conviction that it was impossible rested on the idea that from her relatives ' point of view he was not a good or suitable match for the delightful Kitty , and that Kitty herself could not love him .
Of course the mysterious , enchanting Kitty could not love a plain fellow , such as he considered himself to be , a man so ordinary and undistinguished .
To justify himself Levin began to relate what used to happen at the Meetings in his district .
' We Russians are always like that . It may be a good trait in us - this capacity to see our own faults - but we overdo it , and comfort ourselves with sarcasm , which is always ready on our tongues .
Yet skaters appeared quite calmly to gain on her , to catch her up , and even speak to her , and quite independently of her to amuse themselves enjoying the excellent ice and the fine weather .
He stood up , took off his overcoat , and having given himself a start on the rough ice near the shelter , glided down to the smooth surface of the lake , increasing and diminishing his speed and shaping his course as if by volition only .
' I do n't feel at all dull , I am very busy , ' he answered , conscious that she was subduing him to her quiet tone , from which - as had happened at the beginning of the winter - he would not be able to free himself .
' Do n't hurt yourself - it needs practice ! '
Levin went up the path as far back as he could to get up speed , and then slid downwards , balancing himself with his arms in this unaccustomed movement .
Levin was considering what the change in Kitty 's face meant now ; persuading himself that there was hope , now in despair , seeing clearly that such hope was madness ; but yet feeling an altogether different being from what he had been before her smile and the words ' Au revoir ! '
WHEN THEY ENTERED THE RESTAURANT Levin could not help noticing something peculiar in his friend 's expression , a kind of suppressed radiance in his face and whole figure . Oblonsky took off his overcoat , and with his hat on one side walked into the dining-room , giving his orders to the Tartar waiters , in their swallow-tail coats , with napkins under their arms , who attached themselves to him . Bowing right and left to his acquaintances who , here as elsewhere , greeted him joyfully , he passed on to the buffet , drank a glass of vodka and ate a bit of fish as hors-d 'oeuvre , and said something to the painted Frenchwoman , bedecked with ribbons and lace , who sat at a little counter - something that made even this Frenchwoman burst into frank laughter .
The waiter , remembering Oblonsky 's way of calling the items on the French menu by their Russian names , did not repeat the words after him , but afterwards allowed himself the pleasure of repeating the whole of the order according to the menu : ' Potage printanier , turbot , sauce Beaumarchais , boeuf , poularde  l 'estragon , macdoine de fruits ... ' and immediately , as if moved by springs , he put down the bill of fare in one cardboard cover , and seizing another containing the wine-list held it out to Oblonsky .
' I ca n't help it , ' replied Levin . ' Put yourself in my place - look at it from a country fellow 's point of view !
Levin obediently helped himself to sauce , but would not let Oblonsky eat .
That is disgusting , and therefore one ca n't help feeling oneself unworthy . '
Not only were nearly all the youths that danced at the Moscow balls in love with Kitty , but two serious suitors presented themselves for her that very first winter : Levin and , immediately after his departure , Count Vronsky .
The Russian way , of employing a professional match-maker , was considered monstrous , and was laughed at by everybody , including the Princess herself .
And now she was afraid that Vronsky might content himself with merely flirting with her daughter .
She saw that Kitty was in love with him , but consoled herself with the thought that Vronsky was an honest man and therefore would not act in such a way .
With her thought of Vronsky was mingled some uneasiness , though he was an extremely well-bred and quiet-mannered man ; a sense of something false , not in him , for he was very simple and kindly , but in herself ; whereas in relation to Levin she felt herself quite simple and clear .
And now for the first time the matter presented itself to her in a different and entirely new light .
Only now did she realize that this matter ( with whom she would be happy , who was the man she loved ) did not concern herself alone , but that in a moment she would have to wound a man she cared for , and to wound him cruelly ...
She was fond of Kitty , and her affection showed itself as the affection of a married woman for an unmarried one generally does , in a desire to get Kitty married according to her - the Countess 's - own ideal of conjugal bliss ; and she wished to see her married to Vronsky .
Ah the ball ! " - ' And the Prince imagining himself to be impersonating his wife curtsied at each word . ' And then if we really ruin Kitty 's happiness , if she really gets it into her head ... '
I can recognize a man who has serious intentions - such as Levin - and I can see through a weathercock like that popinjay who only wishes to amuse himself . '
Marriage had never presented itself to him as a possibility .
I feel myself better and purer , I feel I have a heart and that there is much that is good in me .
He is a very nervous man , and does make himself unpleasant sometimes , that 's true enough ; but on the other hand he is sometimes very charming .
His chest involuntarily expanded and his eyes shone , he felt himself to be a conqueror .
In the depths of his heart he did not respect his mother and ( though this he never acknowledged to himself ) did not love her , but in accordance with the views of the set he lived in , and as a result of his education , he could not imagine himself treating her in any way but one altogether submissive and respectful ; the more submissive and respectful he was externally , the less he honoured and loved her in his heart .
It was as if an excess of vitality so filled her whole being that it betrayed itself against her will , now in her smile , now in the light of her eyes .
' Oh yes , I should have recognized you , especially as I believe your mother and I have talked of nothing but you all the way , ' said she , at last allowing the animation she had been trying to suppress to reveal itself in a smile . ' But my brother is not here yet . '
Thrown himself under ... Run over ... ' shouted the passers-by .
She threw herself on the body . They say he was the sole support of a very large family .
I know they say husbands tell their wives how they have lived , but Steve ... ' She corrected herself .
' Dolly dearest ! I understand , but do n't torture yourself .
' All I can say is , ' began Anna , ' I am his sister and I know his character , his capacity for forgetting everything , ' she made a gesture with her hand in front of her forehead , ' that capacity for letting himself be completely carried away , but on the other hand for completely repenting .
' Well , of course ... ' Dolly put in quickly as if saying what she had often herself thought , ' or else it would not be forgiveness .
' Well , then , if I have to go , I shall console myself with the reflection that it will give you pleasure ... Grisha , please do n't pull so hard , it is all in a tangle already , ' she said , arranging a loose lock of hair with which Grisha was playing .
There 's Miss Hull calling you to tea , ' she went on , disengaging herself from the children and dispatching them to the dining-room .
For toward ten o 'clock - the time when she generally said good-night to her son and often put him to bed herself before going to a ball - she felt sad at being so far from him , and , whatever they talked about , her thoughts kept returning to her curly-headed Serezha .
She was not a girl just come out , for whom all faces at a ball blend into one fairy-like vision ; nor was she a girl who had been dragged from ball to ball till all the faces were familiar to dullness . She was between those two extremes , and though elated was able to control herself sufficiently to be observant .
She noticed that Anna was elated with success , a feeling Kitty herself knew so well .
Every time he turned toward Anna he slightly bowed his head as if he wished to fall down before her , and in his eyes there was an expression of submission and fear . ' I do not wish to offend , ' his every look seemed to say , ' I only wish to save myself , but I do not know how . '
And , strange to say , though they were talking about Ivan Ivanich , who made himself so ridiculous with his French , and how Miss Eletskaya could have made a better match , yet these words were important for them and they felt this as well as Kitty .
She felt herself quite broken-hearted .
' Oh ! it 's all the same to me ! ' replied Kitty . No one but herself understood her situation , because no one knew that she had only a few days ago refused a man whom she perhaps loved , and refused him because she trusted another .
She felt herself crushed and her face expressed it .
If I had any pride , I should not have put myself into such a position . ' And he pictured to himself Vronsky , happy , kind , clever , calm , and certainly never placing himself in such a terrible position as he , Levin , had been in that evening .
He recalled how despite the ridicule of his fellow-students his brother had lived like a monk while at the University and for a year after , strictly observing all the religious rites , attending service , fasting , avoiding all pleasures and especially women ; and then how he suddenly broke loose , became intimate with the vilest people and gave himself up to unbridled debauchery .
He kept glancing at his brother 's sickly , consumptive face , and felt more and more sorry for him , nor could he force himself to pay attention to what Nicholas was telling him about the Association .
All the profits on their labour , by which they might better their condition , give themselves some leisure , and consequently gain some education , all this surplus value is taken away by the capitalists .
And our society has so shaped itself that the more the people work the richer the merchants and landowners will become , while the people will remain beasts of burden for ever .
Tell me what you are doing , ' he continued , greedily chewing a crust of bread and filling himself another glass . ' How are you getting on ? '
He felt this at the mere sight of Ignat and the horses ; but when he had put on the sheepskin coat that had been brought for him and , well wrapped up , had seated himself in the sledge and started homeward , turning over in his mind the orders he would give about the work on the estate , and as he watched the side horse ( once a saddle-horse that had been overridden , a spirited animal from the Don ) , he saw what had befallen him in quite a different light .
Secondly , he would never again allow himself to be carried away by passion , the repulsive memory of which had so tormented him when he was making up his mind to propose .
Then , remembering his brother Nicholas , he determined that he would never allow himself to forget him again , but would watch over him , keep him in sight , and be ready to help when things went hard with him .
He considered an entire change of economic conditions nonsense ; but he had always felt the injustice of his superfluities compared with the peasant 's poverty , and now decided , in order to feel himself quite justified , that though he had always worked hard and lived simply , he would in future work still more and allow himself still less luxury .
Laska , a setter bitch , ran out too , almost throwing Kuzma off his feet , and whined and rubbed herself against Levin 's knees , jumping up and wishing but not daring to put her front paws on his chest .
And obeying the latter voice he went to the corner where two thirty-six pound dumb-bells lay and began doing gymnastic exercises with them to invigorate himself .
He felt that in the depth of his soul something was settling down , adjusting and composing itself .
He patted her a little , and she curled herself up at his feet with her head on her outstretched hind paw .
This is a confession of something that oppresses me , and I want to make it to you , ' said Anna , determinedly throwing herself back in an arm-chair and looking straight into Dolly 's eyes .
' Oh no , no , I am not Steve , ' she said frowning . ' The reason I have told you is that I do not even for a moment allow myself to distrust myself . '
But at the moment when she uttered these words she knew they were untrue : she not only distrusted herself but was agitated by the thought of Vronsky , and was leaving sooner than she had intended only that she might not meet him again .
She was too eager to live herself .
But there was nothing to be done , so she forced herself to read , while her little hand toyed with the smooth paper-knife .
' What am I ashamed of ? ' she asked herself with indignant surprise .
She had assured herself more than once during those last few days , and again a moment ago , that Vronsky in relation to her was only one of the hundreds of everlastingly identical young men she met everywhere , and that she would never allow herself to give him a thought ; yet now , at the first moment of seeing him again , she was seized by a feeling of joyful pride .
He felt himself a king , not because he believed that he had made an impression on Anna - he did not yet believe that - but because the impression she had made on him filled him with happiness and pride .
By addressing himself thus to his wife he conveyed to Vronsky his wish to be alone with her , and turning to Vronsky he touched his hat .
' You insist too much on your devotion , for me to value it greatly , ' she replied in the same playful tone , while she involuntarily listened to the sound of Vronsky 's footsteps following them . ' But what does he matter to me ? ' she asked herself , and began inquiring of her husband how Serezha had got on during her absence .
To speak of it would be to give it an importance that does not belong to it . ' She remembered how she had once told her husband about one of his subordinates who very nearly made her a declaration , and how Karenin had answered that every woman living in Society was liable to such things , but that he had full confidence in her tact and would never degrade himself and her by being jealous .
Altogether , when , after her visitors had left , Anna busied herself with her toilet , she was much vexed .
Completely to regain her composure , she went to the nursery and spent the evening with her son . She put him to bed herself , made the sign of the cross over him , and tucked him up .
' Here you are at last ! ' she said , holding out her hand to him . He kissed it , and seated himself beside her .
' The master himself ! Baroness , some coffee for him out of the new coffee-pot ...
But there was another sort of people : the real people to which all his set belonged , who had above all to be well-bred , generous , bold , gay , and to abandon themselves unblushingly to all their passions and laugh at everything else .
' Yes , I am , ' replied Vronsky , rubbing himself with a bath-towel .
Having heard all the news , Vronsky , with the help of his valet , put on his uniform and went to report himself .
' But you know in these cases there is always some hidden moral cause , ' the family doctor allowed himself to remark with a subtle smile .
But she did not want to pain her mother , especially as her mother considered herself to blame .
Such a discovery could now only deprive her of her accustomed family life , and she let herself be deceived , despising him , and especially herself , for such weakness .
ON ENTERING KITTY 'S LITTLE SNUGGERY , a pretty pink room , decorated with vieux saxe figures - as fresh , rosy and gay as Kitty herself had been two months before , Dolly remembered how light-heartedly and with what love they two had arranged that room the year before .
' I am going home now and shall have to shut myself up , and you wo n't be able to come to me , ' said Dolly , sitting down beside her sister . ' I want to talk to you . '
Dolly knew her sister 's habit of fingering something when she was heated , and she knew how apt Kitty was to forget herself when in a passion and to say much that was unpleasant and had better not have been said . She tried to pacify her ; but it was too late .
I have enough pride never to let myself love a man who does not love me . '
And the sweet tear-stained face hid itself in the folds of Dolly 's dress .
Formerly to go anywhere in a ball-dress was just a pleasure to me . I used to like myself in it ; but now I feel ashamed and uncomfortable .
She met him most frequently at Betsy 's , who was a Vronsky herself and his cousin .
At first Anna sincerely believed that she was displeased with him for allowing himself to persecute her ; but soon after her return from Moscow , having gone to a party where she expected to meet him but to which he did not come , she clearly realized , by the sadness that overcame her , that she had been deceiving herself and that his persecution supplied the whole interest of her life .
Wenden himself , having returned from his office and hearing the front-door bell and voices , went out , saw the tipsy officers with the letter , and hustled them out .
She had scarcely time to go to her dressing-room , put powder on her long pale face and rub it off again , smarten herself up , and order tea to be served in the big drawing-room , before one carriage after another began to arrive at the door of her immense house on the Great Morskaya .
' I wonder that she , with her common sense - for she is not stupid - does not see how ridiculous she makes herself . '
The Princess Myagkaya did not understand why her words had such an effect , but was aware that they did and availed herself of it .
' But I do n't even think of blaming her ! ' Anna 's friend said , justifying herself .
The Princess was characterizing Karenin , ' replied the ambassador 's wife with a smile , seating herself at the table .
Anna entered the room holding herself , as usual , very erect , and without changing the direction of her eyes approached her hostess , walking with that quick , firm yet light step which distinguished her from other Society women . She shook hands ; smilingly , and with the same smile looked round at Vronsky .
' Yes , but how often the happiness of marriages founded on reason crumbles to dust because the very passion that was disregarded makes itself felt later , ' said Vronsky .
He saw that she was saying what she forced herself to utter and not what she wished to say .
When he reached home he went to his study as usual , seated himself in his easy-chair , and opened a book on the Papacy at the place where his paper-knife was inserted . He read till one o 'clock as was his wont , only now and then rubbing his high forehead and jerking his head as if driving something away .
Why he should have confidence - that is , a full conviction that his young wife would always love him - he never asked himself ; but he felt no distrust , and therefore had confidence , and assured himself that it was right to have it .
Karenin was being confronted with life - with the possibility of his wife 's loving somebody else , and this seemed stupid and incomprehensible to him , because it was life itself .
What decision ? ' he asked himself in the drawing-room , and could find no answer . ' But after all , ' he reflected before turning into her room , ' what is it that has happened ?
Besides ... to be jealous is to degrade myself and her , ' he said to himself as he entered her sitting-room .
And again he repeated to himself in the dining-room : ' Yes , it is necessary to decide , and stop it , and express my opinion ... ' And again in the drawing-room , at the turn into her room , he asked himself ' Decide what ? ' and then , ' What has happened ? ' and he replied ' Nothing , ' and remembered that jealousy is a feeling which insults a wife ; but in the drawing-room he came again to the conviction that something had happened .
To put himself in thought and feeling into another being was a mental action foreign to Karenin .
Thinking it over , he regretted having to spend his time and powers of mind on inconspicuous domestic affairs ; but nevertheless , clearly and definitely , as though it were an official report , the form and sequence of the speech he had to make shaped itself in his mind . ' I must make the following quite clear : First , the importance of public opinion and propriety ; secondly , the religious meaning of marriage ; thirdly , if necessary , I must refer to the harm that may result to our son ; fourthly , allude to her own unhappiness . '
What about ? ' she asked , seating herself . ' Well , let us have a talk , if it is so important .
She felt herself clothed in an impenetrable armour of lies and that some unseen power was helping and supporting her .
As you know , I consider jealousy an insulting and degrading feeling and will never allow myself to be guided by it ; but there are certain laws of propriety which one can not disregard with impunity .
For a long time she lay still with wide-open eyes , the brightness of which it seemed to her she could herself see in the darkness .
Karenin , strong as he was in his official activities , felt himself powerless here .
Each time he began to think about it , he felt that he must try again , that by kindness , tenderness , and persuasion there was still a hope of saving her and obliging her to bethink herself . Every day he prepared himself to have a talk with her .
She felt so guilty , so much to blame , that it only remained for her to humble herself and ask to be forgiven ; but she had no one in the world now except him , so that even her prayer for forgiveness was addressed to him .
The shame she felt at her spiritual nakedness communicated itself to him .
Then , as the murderer desperately throws himself on the body , as though with passion , and drags it and hacks it , so Vronsky covered her face and shoulders with kisses . She held his hand and did not move .
At last , as though mastering herself , she sat up and pushed him away .
WHEN LEVIN FIRST RETURNED FROM MOSCOW , and while he still started and blushed every time he remembered the disgrace of the refusal , he had said to himself , ' I blushed and started like this when I was ploughed in physics and had to remain in the second class ; and in the same way I felt myself lost when I made a mess of my sister 's affair that had been entrusted to me .
However much he told himself that he was not at all to blame in that matter , the memory of it , together with other shameful memories , made him start and blush .
I 'll see to everything myself . '
The further he went the happier he felt and all sorts of plans for his estate , each better than the last , presented themselves to him : to plant rows of willows with a southern aspect on all the fields , so that the snow should not remain long under them ; to divide the fields , tilling six and keeping three under grass ; to build a new cattle-yard at the further end of the field , to dig a pond , and to make folds for the cattle for manuring purposes .
' Why , it was you who taught us to sow it . The year before last you gave me a bushel of seed yourself .
But Levin , frowning , pretended not to see the hand , and began taking the snipe out of the game-bag . ' You have been pleased to amuse yourself with shooting ?
On entering the study Ryabinin looked round by force of habit as though to find the icon , but after finding it he did not cross himself .
' If you please , the forest is mine , ' he said , rapidly crossing himself and holding out his hand . ' Take your money , the forest is mine .
An hour later the dealer ; with his coat well lapped over , the hooks of his overcoat carefully fastened , and with the agreement in his pocket , seated himself in his little cart and drove home .
Levin really was in a bad humour , and in spite of his desire to behave kindly and amiably to his charming guest he could not master himself .
But Levin did not think all this . He dimly felt that there was something insulting to him in the affair , and was angry not with what had upset him but with everything that presented itself to him .
Try as Levin would to control himself , he remained morose and silent .
There was one question he wanted to put to Oblonsky , but could not bring himself to ask , nor could he find the form to put it in or the moment to ask it .
' Does he , or does he not know that I proposed ? ' thought Levin , looking at him . ' Yes , there is something sly and diplomatic in his face , ' and feeling himself blush , he gazed in silence straight into Oblonsky 's eyes .
A man whose father crawled up from nothing by intrigues and whose mother has had relations with heaven knows whom ... No , pardon me , I consider myself and people like me aristocrats : people who can point back to three or four honourable generations of their family , all with a high standard of education ( talent and intelligence are a different matter ) , who have never cringed before anyone , never depended on anyone , but have lived as my father and my grandfather did .
It goes without saying that he spoke to none of them about his love , nor did he betray himself even in the wildest drinking-bouts ( indeed , he never drank so as to lose all self-control ) . And he silenced any of his thoughtless comrades who tried to hint at the liaison .
On the contrary he needed an occupation and an interest apart from his love , in which to refresh himself and find rest from the impressions which agitated him too violently .
' What ? Fortifying yourself for your job ? ' asked the plump officer taking a seat beside him .
And drawing up his blanket he threw himself back on his pillow . ' Leave me alone , Yashvin ! ' he said angrily to Yashvin , who was pulling the blanket off him .
Let us have a drink together ! Vronsky , will you have a drink ? ' said Petritsky , getting up and wrapping himself to the arms in a rug of tiger-skin pattern .
The mare 's excitement had communicated itself to Vronsky . He felt that the blood was rushing to his heart , and that he , like the horse , wished to move and to bite ; it was both frightening and joyful .
And now too , having given himself a shake , he continued the current of his thoughts :
When he was present neither Vronsky nor Anna allowed themselves to speak about anything they could not have mentioned to every one or even to hint at things the boy would not have understood .
But , besides this , her physical agitation communicated itself to him .
Vronsky could not understand how she , with her strong honest nature , could endure this state of deception and not wish to escape from it ; but he did not guess that the chief cause lay in the one word ' son ' which she could not bring herself to utter .
When she thought about her son and his future relations with the mother who had left his father , she was so terrified at what she had done that she did not reason , but woman-like only tried to comfort herself with false arguments and words in order that everything should remain as before and that she might forget the dreadful question of what would happen to her son .
' I was just thinking the same , ' he said ; ' wondering how you could sacrifice everything for my sake . I can not forgive myself for your unhappiness . '
Only after going some five miles did he recollect himself sufficiently to look at his watch and to realize that it was already half-past five , and that he was late .
' All right ! all right ! ' answered the Englishman . ' Do n't upset yourself . '
Vronsky once again glanced at the beautiful fascinating shape of the mare , whose whole body was trembling , and tearing himself with difficulty from this sight he left the shed .
The gelding , planting its feet with effort , reduced the speed of its enormous body , and the guards ' officer , like one waking from deep sleep , looked round and forced himself to smile .
He ascertained that Anna , Betsy , and his brother 's wife were there , but in order not to agitate himself , intentionally avoided going near them .
' There are things which should be discussed only by those who are directly interested , and the matter you are concerning yourself about is one ... '
Answer her , and do n't upset yourself before the race .
He was calm and important as usual , and standing in front of the horse , was himself holding both its reins .
The mare had not time to stir before Vronsky with a powerful and agile movement put his foot in the notched steel stirrup and seated himself lightly but firmly on the creaking leather of the saddle .
In the first moments Vronsky was master neither of himself nor of his mare .
Gladiator and Diana approached the stream together , and almost at the same moment rose above it and flew across to the other side ; lightly as if on wings Frou-Frou rose up behind them ; but at the moment when Vronsky felt himself raised in the air he suddenly saw , almost under his horse 's feet , Kusovlev , who was floundering on the other side of the stream with his Diana ( Kusovlev had let go of the reins at the jump and the horse fell throwing him over her head ) .
It was only by feeling himself nearer to the ground and by the smoothness of the pace that Vronsky knew how much the mare had increased her speed .
He himself , without knowing it , had made the unpardonable mistake of dropping back in his saddle and pulling up her head .
To his regret he felt that he was himself sound and unhurt .
He did not let himself think about this and did not think about it , yet at the bottom of his soul , without admitting it to himself or having any proofs or even suspicions of it , he nevertheless knew certainly that he was a wronged husband , and was therefore profoundly unhappy .
Had Karenin allowed himself to observe , he would have noticed the timid , confused look which the child cast first at his father and then at his mother .
As a child that has been hurt skips about , making its muscles move in order to dull its pain , so Karenin needed mental activity to smother those thoughts about his wife which in her presence and in the presence of Vronsky , and amid the continual mention of his name , forced themselves upon him .
' It is exciting , but one can not tear oneself away , ' said another lady . ' If I had been a Roman , I should never have missed a gladiatorial show . '
In spite of all he had seen , Karenin would still not allow himself to think of his wife 's real position .
' I asked you once before to conduct yourself in Society so that evil tongues might be unable to say anything against you .
And throwing herself back into the corner of the carriage she burst into sobs , hiding her face in her hands .
But for heaven 's sake ' - her look added - ' do not think that I shall force myself on you . I simply admire and love you . '
Kitty begged her mother more than ever to allow her to make Varenka 's acquaintance , and , much as the Princess disliked appearing to take the first step toward getting acquainted with Madame Stahl , who allowed herself to be proud of something or other , she made inquiries about Varenka , and , having learnt particulars which allowed her to conclude that though there might be little good there would be no harm in this acquaintance , she herself approached Varenka .
' Allow me to introduce myself , ' said the Princess with her dignified smile . ' My daughter has fallen in love with you .
She could not accompany herself but she sang at sight admirably .
' I hate him : and I can not forgive myself . '
But Varenka , lonely , without relatives or friends , with her sad disillusionment , wishing for nothing and regretting nothing , personified that perfection of which Kitty only allowed herself to dream .
In Varenka she saw that it was only necessary to forget oneself and to love others in order to be at peace , happy , and lovely .
Having now clearly understood what was most important , Kitty was not content merely to delight in it , but immediately with her whole soul devoted herself to this newly revealed life .
Kitty evidently prided herself on fulfilling the duties of a sister-of-mercy in that family .
' Kitty , have you not had some unpleasantness with the Petrovs ? ' the Princess asked when they were again alone together . ' Why has she stopped sending the children here and coming herself ? '
' This is my daughter , ' said the Prince , ' allow me to introduce myself . '
' I do not know whether you will remember me , but I must recall myself to you in order to thank you for your kindness to my daughter , ' he said , raising his hat and not putting it on again .
She did not renounce all she had learnt , but realized that she had deceived herself when thinking that she could be what she wished to be .
With his natural kind heart he of course liked human beings more than he disliked them , and naturally the peasants were included ; but he could not like or dislike the people as if they were something apart , because he not only lived among them , his interests closely bound up with theirs , but he considered himself one of the people and could not find in himself any special qualities or defects which placed him in contrast with them .
But the older he grew and the more intimately he came to know his brother , the oftener the thought occurred to him that the power of working for the general welfare - a power of which he felt himself entirely destitute - was not a virtue but rather a lack of something : not a lack of kindly honesty and noble desires and tastes , but a lack of the power of living , of what is called heart - the aspiration which makes a man choose one out of all the innumerable paths of life that present themselves , and desire that alone .
Constantine felt himself morally cornered , and in consequence became excited and involuntarily betrayed the chief cause of his indifference to social questions .
He felt himself beaten at every point , yet was sure that his brother had not understood what he had been trying to say , only he did not know why this was so : whether it was because he could not express himself clearly , or because his brother either could not or did not wish to understand him .
THE PERSONAL MATTER THAT OCCUPIED LEVIN while he was talking with his brother was this . The year before , when visiting a field that was being mown , he had lost his temper with his steward , and to calm himself had used a remedy of his own - he took a scythe from one of the peasants and himself began mowing .
' And please send my scythe to Titus to be sharpened , and have it taken to the meadow to-morrow : I may go mowing myself , ' he said , trying to overcome his confusion .
Levin took it and began to put himself in position .
Levin straightened himself , sighed , and looked back .
The old man went along holding himself erect , moving with regular , long steps , turning out his toes , and with a precise and even motion that seemed to cost him no more effort than swinging his arms when walking , he laid the grass in a level high ridge , as if in play or as if the sharp scythe of its own accord whizzed through the juicy grass .
The longer Levin went on mowing , the oftener he experienced those moments of oblivion when his arms no longer seemed to swing the scythe , but the scythe itself his whole body , so conscious and full of life ; and as if by magic , regularly and definitely without a thought being given to it , the work accomplished itself of its own accord .
He rose , stretching himself and smiling .
Like all guilty husbands Oblonsky was very anxious about his wife 's comfort , so he looked over the house himself and gave orders to have everything done that seemed to him necessary .
She consoled her mistress , assuring her that everything would ' shape itself ( this phrase was her own , and Matthew had learnt it from her ) , and she went to work deliberately and without excitement .
A club was soon established beneath the laburnums , consisting of Matrena Filimonovna , the steward 's wife , the village elder , and the office clerk ; and by means of this club the troubles began gradually to subside , so that in a week 's time everything had really ' shaped itself . '
Often when watching her children she made great efforts to convince herself that she was mistaken , that being their mother she was not impartial ; and yet she could not help telling herself that they were charming children , all the six , each in his or her own way , all of them such as are rarely to be met with ; and she was happy in them and proud of them .
But as she was passing through the dancing-room she saw a scene which filled her heart with such joy that tears came to her eyes and she pardoned the little culprit herself .
Terenty the coachman tied to a tree the horses , that were swishing their tails to drive away the flies , stretched himself full length in the shade , pressing down the high grass , and smoked his pipe , while from the bathing-house came the sound of the incessant merry squealing of the children .
One of the young women was watching the governess , who was dressing after all the others , and seeing her put on a third petticoat could not refrain from remarking : ' Look at her ! She 's wrapping herself up and wrapping herself up , and has n't got enough round her yet ! ' and the women burst out laughing .
On seeing her he found himself confronted by just such a picture of family life as his fancy painted .
Arguments about cows being milk-producing machines did not commend themselves to her , for she imagined that such arguments were calculated only to interfere with farming .
From the Elder 's vague replies to Levin 's questions as to how much hay the largest meadow had yielded , from his haste to apportion the hay without waiting for permission , and from the general tone of the peasant , Levin knew that there was something not quite square about the apportionment , and decided to go and investigate the matter himself .
When the last of the hay had been apportioned , Levin entrusted the rest of the supervision to the steward and seated himself on a haycock marked with a willow branch , looking with enjoyment at the meadow teeming with busy people .
How shall I do it ? ' he asked himself , trying to find expression for what he had been thinking and the feelings he had lived through in that short night .
All his ideas and feelings separated themselves into three different lines of thought .
And here no clear idea presented itself to his mind .
How am I to do it ? ' he again asked himself . , and could find no reply . ' However , I have not slept all night and ca n't render a clear account of myself now , ' he thought , ' but I 'll clear it up later .
I knew it and could see it all along , though I tried out of pity for her to deceive myself , ' thought he . And it really seemed to him that he had always seen it .
The one thing that preoccupied him was the question of how he could best divest himself of the mud with which she in her fall had bespattered him : of how to do it in the way which would be most decent , most convenient for him , and consequently fairest , and how he should continue his active , honest , and useful career .
Do I not know beforehand that my friends would never allow me to go so far as to fight a duel , would not allow a statesman whom Russia needs to expose himself to danger ?
This would happen : I , knowing beforehand that matters would never be allowed to reach a dangerous point , should have challenged a man in order to cover myself with false glamour .
That would be dishonest , it would be false , it would be deceiving myself as well as others .
Having considered and rejected the idea of a duel , Karenin turned his thoughts to divorce , the next expedient of which some of the wronged husbands he remembered had availed themselves .
My decision is as follows : Whatever your actions may have been , I do not consider myself justified in severing the bonds with which a Higher Power has united us .
If not , you can yourself foresee what awaits you and your son .
He felt that he now saw more deeply than ever into that complication , and that a capital idea ( he might say that without flattering himself ) had occurred to him , which would disentangle the whole business , raise him in his official career , upset his enemies , and therefore be of the greatest value to the State .
When Karenin had first taken up his present post he had at once realized this and had wished to stop it ; but , till he felt himself firmly seated , he knew that it would not be wise to do so as too many interests were involved . Afterwards , being occupied with other matters , he had simply forgotten the business .
After he left her , she told herself that she was glad she had told him , that now everything would be definite - at any rate , the falsehood and deception would no longer exist .
She asked herself where she would go when turned out , and found no answer .
When she thought about Vronsky , she imagined that he did not love her , that he was beginning to find her a burden , and that she could not offer herself to him ; and in consequence she felt hostile toward him .
' Go to Mariette , ' she said to Serezha , who had come out after her , and she began pacing up and down the straw matting of the verandah . ' Is it possible that they could not forgive me or understand that it could not have been otherwise ? ' she asked herself .
' Besides , what can I write to him ? ' she asked herself ; and again she blushed with shame .
But the time came when I understood that I could no longer deceive myself that I am alive , and can not be blamed because God made me so , that I want to love and to live .
He will be in the right , but as for me who am already disgraced he will disgrace me more and more ! ' - `` You can yourself foresee what awaits you and your son ! '' - ' - she repeated the words of the letter . ' That is a threat that he will take my son from me , and probably their stupid laws will permit it .
Everything did itself .
That is a question an enfant terrible might put ! ' and Betsy evidently tried to , but could not , control herself , and again burst out into the infectious kind of laughter peculiar to those who laugh seldom . ' You must ask them ! ' she uttered , while tears of laughter choked her voice .
' How I wish I knew others as I know myself ! ' said Anna , seriously and thoughtfully . ' Am I worse than others or better ?
' To fall asleep one must have worked , and also to amuse oneself one must have worked . '
While quite young and still in the Cadet Corps he had experienced the humiliation of a refusal when , having got into debt , he had tried to borrow money , and since then he had never again allowed himself to get into such a position .
To keep things straight he was in the habit , some five or six times a year according to circumstances , of secluding himself and clearing up all his affairs .
Consequently Vronsky , who was in the habit of spending 45,000 roubles a year , having this year received only 25,000 , found himself in difficulties .
He would have let his hand be cut off before he would have allowed himself by word or hint to insult her , or fail to show her all the respect that a woman can possibly desire .
He had made this proposal , but now , thinking it over , he saw clearly that it would be better to avoid that plan , and yet , while he told himself so , he feared that this might be wrong .
' When I told her to leave her husband , that meant that she should unite herself with me .
Having then perforce to assume the role of an independent character , he played it very adroitly and cleverly , as though he had no grudge against anyone , did not feel himself at all offended , and only wished to be left in peace to enjoy himself .
He jerked his head backwards and raised his glass , welcoming Vronsky and showing by this gesture that he must first go to the sergeant-major , who was already stretching himself and puckering his lips for a kiss .
He put down his legs , threw one of them over the other , and placing his arm across it felt its firm calf , where he had hurt it in the fall the day before , and then , throwing himself back , sighed deeply several times .
He had often before been joyfully conscious of his body , but had never loved himself , his own body , as he did now .
' Get on , get on ! ' he shouted to the coachman , thrusting himself out of the window , and taking a three-rouble note from his pocket he put it into the man 's hand as the latter turned round .
But as soon as she had spoken he straightened himself and his face assumed a proud and stern expression .
And at that instant the thought of what Serpukhovskoy had just been saying to him and of what had occurred to him that morning ( that it was better not to bind himself ) flashed through his mind , and he knew that he could not pass on the thought to her .
Stremov ( who was also on the Special Committee ) , stung to the quick , began justifying himself , and the meeting became quite a stormy one . But Karenin triumphed and his motion was carried ; three new Special Committees were formed , and the next day nothing was talked about in a certain Petersburg set but that meeting .
Although while preparing for this interview she had been teaching herself to despise and blame him , she did not know what to say , and pitied him . There was silence for some time .
Therefore I warn you that our relations must remain what they have been , and that if you let yourself be compromised I shall be obliged to take measures to safeguard my honour . '
The delight he had felt in the labour itself , occasioned by his having drawn nearer to the peasants , his jealousy of them , his envy of their life , his desire to adopt that kind of life ( which had not been a mere desire that night but a real intention , the details of which he had considered ) , all these things together had so changed his outlook on the working of his estate that he could no longer feel his former interest in the work , or help noticing the unpleasant relation to the labourer on which it was all based . Herds of cattle of an improved breed like Pava , the tilled land ploughed with good ploughs , the nine fields surrounded with willows , the hundreds of acres of deeply manured land , the seed drills and all such things , were splendid if they could be worked by himself alone or with the help of friends and people in sympathy with him .
Levin had long felt dissatisfied with his relation to the work on his estate . He had seen that the boat was leaking but had not found or looked for the leak , and perhaps had purposely deceived himself , for had he been disillusioned in that work , he would have had nothing left .
' That 's how it is , sir , ' said the old man , rising ; and after crossing himself several times he thanked Levin and went out .
Besides , at the bottom of his heart he wanted to put himself to the test and again to estimate his feelings for the girl .
The Sviyazhskys were friendly with Levin , and therefore he allowed himself to sound Sviyazhsky and try to get to the very foundation of his philosophy of life , but it was all in vain .
His discomfort communicated itself to the pretty sister , but the hostess did not seem to notice anything and purposely drew her sister into the conversation .
Sviyazhsky got down the books and settled himself in a rocking-chair .
Though at present Levin was more interested in agriculture than in anything else , he asked himself while listening to his host , ' What is there inside him ?
It was true that often when talking to the peasants , and explaining to them the advantages of the plan , Levin felt that they were only listening to the sound of his voice and were quite determined , whatever he might say , not to let themselves be taken in .
On the thirtieth of September the sun showed itself in the morning , and , in hopes of fine weather , Levin began seriously preparing for his departure .
An old inn-keeper , into whose house he had gone to dry himself , evidently approved of Levin 's plan and had offered to join a group to buy cattle .
I feel sure that Franklin felt just as insignificant and distrusted himself just as I do when he remembered his past .
Having dined , Levin as usual sat down in his easy-chair with a book , and while reading continued to think about his impending journey in connection with the book he was writing . To-day the importance of his work presented itself to him with especial clearness , and whole paragraphs of their own accord shaped themselves in his mind , expressing the gist of his thoughts .
When he met Agatha Mikhaylovna he joked with her and questioned her about the other old servants : The news of Parfen Denisich 's death affected him strangely . A look of fear appeared on his face but he immediately recovered himself .
Communists deny the justice of property , capital , or inheritance , while I do not deny that main stimulus ' ( it was repulsive to Levin to find himself using such words , but since he had been engrossed in his work he had involuntarily begun using more and more foreign words ) , ' but want only to regulate labour . '
Vronsky had a distinguished appearance , possessed the art of carrying himself with respectful dignity , and was in the habit of associating with people of that class .
The Prince enjoyed unusually good health even for a Prince , and by means of gymnastics and care of his body had developed his strength to such a degree that , in spite of the excess he indulged in when amusing himself , he looked as fresh as a big green shining cucumber .
But the chief reason why the Prince 's presence oppressed Vronsky was that he saw himself reflected in the Prince , and what he saw in that mirror was not flattering to his vanity .
Involuntarily submitting to Anna 's weakness , who , ready in advance to accept anything , gave herself up to him entirely and expected him to decide her fate , he had long ceased to imagine that their union could end in the way he had then expected .
His ambitious plans had receded to the background , and feeling that he had come out of the range of activity in which everything was definite , he completely gave himself up to his passion , and that passion bound him closer and closer to her .
These fits of jealousy which had lately begun to repeat themselves more and more frequently , horrified him and , however much he tried to hide the fact , they made him feel colder toward her , although he knew that the jealousy was caused by love for him .
How often he had told himself that to be loved by her was happiness ! and now that she loved him , as only a woman can for whom love outweighs all else that is good in life , he was much further from happiness than when he had followed her from Moscow .
Then he thought himself unhappy , but happiness was all in the future ; now he felt that the best happiness was already in the past .
And in my horror I tried to wake , but I woke still in a dream and began asking myself what it could mean , and Korney says to me : `` You will die in childbed , in childbed , ma 'am ... ''
And for the first time she felt for him and put herself for an instant in his place , and was sorry for him .
' He will be here in a moment , ' said the assistant , and in fact , a minute or two later , in the doorway appeared the long figure of an elderly jurisconsult who had been conferring with the lawyer , followed by the lawyer himself .
' Wo n't you take a seat ? ' He pointed to a chair beside a writing-table covered with papers , and himself took the principal seat , rubbing his little hands with their short fingers covered with white hair and bending his head to one side .
I should not venture so to express myself were I talking to a man of undeveloped mind , ' said the lawyer , ' but I expect it is comprehensible to you . '
The lawyer bowed deferentially , let his client pass out , and being left alone abandoned himself to his happy mood .
He announced , to the surprise of the Committee , that he would ask to be allowed to go and investigate the matter himself , and having received permission he started for the distant Provinces .
From the theatre Oblonsky went to the market , and himself selected the fish and asparagus for dinner ; and at noon he was already at Dusseaux 's Hotel , where he had to call on three people who , fortunately for him , had all put up at the same place . These were : Levin , who had only just returned from abroad ; a newly-appointed superior official who was making a tour of inspection in Moscow ; and Karenin , his brother-in-law , whom he wanted to secure for dinner .
Besides these he meant to ask the well-known crank and enthusiast Pestsov , a Liberal and a great talker , a musician and historian , and the dearest of fifty-year-old boys , who would serve as sauce or condiment to Koznyshev and Karenin - while he himself , Oblonsky , would stir them all up and set them by the ears .
In the depths of his soul he had felt sure that he should meet her that evening , but to maintain his freedom of thought he had tried to assure himself that he did not know it .
She was filled with joy , and that joy made her feel so confused that for a moment when , as he was approaching the hostess , he again glanced at her , Kitty herself , he , and Dolly all thought she would not be able to control herself but would burst into tears .
' I expect great strength is needed for bear-hunting , ' said Karenin , who had the vaguest notions about sport , as he helped himself to cheese and broke his slice of bread , cut as fine as a cobweb .
He felt himself at a height that made him giddy , and there , somewhere far below , were all these good excellent Karenins , Oblonskys , and the rest of the world .
' I am not expressing my opinion of either kind of education , ' replied Koznyshev , smiling at him condescendingly as at a child and holding out his glass . ' All I say is that both sides have weighty arguments in their favour , ' he continued addressing himself to Karenin .
Turovtsyn burst into loud laughter , and Koznyshev felt sorry he had not made that remark himself .
' Oh yes , an Englishman on board ship did once nurse his baby , ' said the old Prince , allowing himself this indelicacy in his daughters ' presence .
And with a kindly smile on his moist and rosy lips , he went on addressing himself chiefly to Karenin , the principal guest . ' Vasya Pryachnikov , as I was told to-day , has fought a duel with Kvitsky and killed him . '
He again made an attempt to draw his brother-in-law away , but Karenin himself asked with interest :
Dolly was firmly convinced of Anna 's innocence , and felt herself growing pale and her lips trembling from anger with this cold , unfeeling man who so calmly intended to ruin her innocent friend .
' It is difficult to make a mistake when a wife herself announces to her husband that eight years of married life and a son have all been an error , and that she wants to begin life from the beginning again , ' he said crossly , sniffing .
He gave himself a shake and began to speak in a loud and piercing voice .
Every one has trouble enough of his own ! ' And having got himself under control , Karenin quietly rose , said good-bye , and went away .
But before he had finished writing she read it under his hand , finished the sentence herself , and wrote the answer : ' Yes . '
They arrived at the Council , and Levin listened to the secretary haltingly reading an official report which he evidently did not understand himself , but from his face Levin saw what a nice , kind , and splendid fellow he was .
She had done everything she could - she had run up to him and given herself entirely , shyly , and joyfully .
She had prepared herself to meet him alone , and had rejoiced at the idea , yet had felt timid and bashful and had not known what she would do .
Without thinking or asking herself what next , she had come to him and acted as she had .
THE PRINCESS SAT IN HER ARMCHAIR silently smiling , and the Prince seated himself beside her .
' Well , you see , I do n't know at all ; I only expressed my wish , ' he said , to excuse himself .
He had now mastered himself and was able to speak , and there was much he had to say to her ; but what he said was not at all what he had intended .
He knew that between him and her there could and should be nothing secret , and therefore he decided that it was his duty , but he had not considered how the confession might affect her : he had not put himself in her place .
How was it they did not see that by giving him that post they were ruining themselves and their own prestige ?
Vronsky went away , but came again in the morning to inquire . Karenin met him in the ante-room and said : ' Remain here : she may ask for you , ' and himself showed him into Anna 's boudoir .
He felt ashamed , humiliated , guilty , and deprived of the possibility of cleansing himself from his degradation .
He felt himself knocked quite out of the rut along which he had hitherto trodden so proudly and so lightly .
Fancies , memories , and most strange thoughts followed one another with extreme rapidity and clearness : now he saw himself pouring out medicine for the patient and overfilling the spoon , then he saw the midwife 's white hands , or Karenin 's curious pose as he knelt on the floor by her bedside .
He stretched out his legs and again threw himself upon the sofa , in the same position as before , and shut his eyes .
' What is this ? Am I going mad ? ' he asked himself .
What else makes people go mad ? What makes them shoot themselves ? ' he replied to his own thought ; and opening his eyes he was surprised to see , close to his head , an embroidered cushion worked by Varya , his brother 's wife .
He rose from the sofa , took off his coat , loosened the strap , and , baring his shaggy chest to breathe more freely , walked across the room . ' That 's how one goes mad , ' he said again , ' and how one shoots oneself so as not to be ashamed , ' he concluded slowly .
He wished to steady himself by the table , dropped the revolver , reeled , and sat down on the floor , looking about him in astonishment .
He made an effort and understood that he was on the floor , and , seeing blood on the tiger-skin and on his hand , realized that he had tried to shoot himself .
In that smile also Karenin thought he saw himself and his position ridiculed .
He was vexed with his wife for not troubling about the charming baby , felt disinclined to go in and see her while in that frame of mind , and also disinclined to meet the Princess Betsy ; but his wife might think it strange if he did not come in as usual , and so he mastered himself and went to her bedroom .
' Yes , but you ca n't but wish to say good-bye to a man who tried to shoot himself for your sake ... '
Anna suddenly interrupted him , with an irritation she could not repress . ' No need whatever , ' she thought , ' for a man to come and take leave of a woman he loves , for whose sake he wanted to die and has ruined himself , a woman who can not live without him !
She was agitatedly toying with the tassels of her dressing-gown , glancing at him with that tormenting feeling of physical repulsion for which she blamed herself , but which she could not overcome .
' Forgive me , I am upset ! I am unjust , ' she went on , controlling herself .
' No , it ca n't go on like that , ' he told himself with conviction after leaving his wife .
You should rouse yourself , and look life straight in the face .
No one else in his place , having to deal with such despair , would have permitted himself to smile , for a smile would have appeared callous . But in his smile there was so much kindness and almost feminine tenderness that it was not offensive , but soothing and pacifying .
I feel that I am flying headlong over some precipice but must not even try to save myself .
Hard as it was for me to assure myself of this , I see that it is so , and there is no help for it .
I submit myself entirely to your wishes and sense of justice . '
' I am afraid she does not understand her position herself . She is no judge of it , ' replied Oblonsky , growing more composed .
To agree to a divorce - to give her her freedom - would mean , as he looked at it , to deprive himself of the only thing that bound him to life , the children he loved , and to deprive her of the last support on the path of virtue and cast her to perdition .
' I am not delirious ... Please arrange so that no one shall say that I shot myself on purpose . '
Despite these words and that smile , which greatly perturbed Varya , when the inflammation left him and he became convalescent he felt that he had rid himself entirely of one part of his grief .
That now , having atoned for his guilt toward her husband , he would be obliged to give her up and never place himself between her with her remorse and her husband , was clear to his mind ; but he could not eradicate from his heart a regret for the loss of her love - could not efface from his memory the moments of happiness he had known with her , moments he had valued so lightly , but the image of which with all their charm pursued him still .
His wound was quite healed and he went about making preparations for his journey to Tashkend . ' Only to see her once more , and then to bury myself , to die ! ' he thought , as he was making a round of farewell calls , and he expressed this thought to Betsy .
Next day Betsy herself came and announced that she had received , through Oblonsky , the definite news that Karenin consented to a divorce and that therefore Vronsky might see Anna .
Anna had prepared herself for this meeting and had thought about what she would say to him ; but she had no time to say any of it , seized by his passion .
His passion communicated itself to her .
But Oblonsky arranged that too . Levin began to prepare himself .
Again ' Lordvmercypons ! ' thought he , crossing himself , bowing , and watching the movements of the bowing deacon 's flexible back . ' Then she took my hand and examined the lines and said , `` You have a splendid hand ! '' and he glanced at the deacon 's stumpy hand and at his own .
When he was alone , Levin , thinking over the remarks of the three bachelors , once more asked himself whether there was in his soul any of that regret for his freedom that they had been speaking about .
Supposing she does not herself know what she is doing ? ' he asked himself . ' She might bethink herself and only when she is already married find out that she does not and never could love me ... '
Three minutes later Levin , not looking at the clock to avoid upsetting himself still more , ran as fast as he could down the corridor .
On the day when , in the ballroom of the house in Arbat Street , she in her brown dress had gone up to him and silently plighted herself to him , on that day and in that hour a complete rupture seemed to have taken place within her soul between her former life and this other new and entirely unknown life - although in fact the old life still went on .
' They say that one who has been best man more than ten times never marries , and I wanted to be one for the tenth time to make myself safe , but was too late , ' Count Sinyavin was saying to the pretty young Princess Charskaya , who had designs on him .
After the usual questions of whether they wished to be married and whether they had promised themselves to others , and their answers , which sounded strange to themselves , the second part of the service began .
Vronsky would never have thought he could be so pleased to see Golenishchev , but probably he was himself unaware how bored he was .
During the three months he had spent abroad with Anna , Vronsky when coming across new people had always asked himself how the new person would be likely to regard his relations with Anna , and in most cases he had found that the men he met understood it in the ' right ' way .
At bottom , those who in Vronsky 's opinion understood it the ' right ' way did not understand it in any special way , but behaved in general as well-bred persons do with regard to all the complicated and unanswerable problems which surround life on every side : they conducted themselves properly , avoiding insinuations and inconvenient questions .
What most displeased him was that Golenishchev , a man belonging to good Society , should put himself an the same level with certain scribblers who irritated him and made him angry .
With an effort Golenishchev recollected himself , but he was at first dejected and morose . Anna however , who at that time was amiably disposed to every one , soon revived him by her simple and cheerful behaviour .
She was not conscious of degradation . With the tact they both possessed , and by avoiding Russian ladies abroad , the two never placed themselves in a false position and always met people who pretended to understand their mutual relations much better than they themselves understood them .
Formerly , ' Golenishchev went on , either not noticing or not wishing to notice that both Anna and Vronsky wanted to speak , ' formerly a freethinker was a man brought up with ideas of religion , law , and morality , who himself , through struggle and pain , had attained freedom of thought ; hut now a new type of born freethinkers has appeared . These grow up without so much as hearing that there used to be laws of morality and religion , and that there was once authority in these things ; they grow up simply with the idea of negation - that is , as heathens .
Golenishchev pulled himself up and unwillingly agreed , but as the artist lived in a distant part of the town they decided to hire a carriage .
' Shut up , for heaven 's sake ! ' cried Mikhaylov with tears in his voice , stopping his ears with his hands as he went into his workroom behind a partition and locked the door behind him . ' What a duffer ! ' he muttered to himself as he seated himself at the table , and having opened a portfolio he at once set to work with particular ardour at an unfinished drawing .
He always attributed to those judges a better understanding than his own , and always expected to hear from them something he had himself not noticed in his work , often fancying that in their criticisms he had really found that something .
He was himself unconscious that as he approached them he seized and absorbed this impression , just as he had retained the tobacconist 's chin and hidden it away where he could find it when it was wanted .
And the most experienced and technical painter could never paint anything by means of mechanical skill alone , if the outline of the subject-matter did not first reveal itself to his mind .
At length , tearing himself away from it regretfully , he let the sheet fall over the picture and went home , tired but happy .
The same thing happened to him as to Golenishchev , who , feeling that he had nothing to express , continually deceived himself by saying that his thought had not yet ripened and that he was bringing it to maturity and preparing materials .
But Golenishchev was embittered and tormented by it , while Vronsky could not deceive and torment himself , and above all could not become embittered .
At every step he took he felt as a man would feel who , after admiring the smooth happy motion of a little boat upon the water , had himself got into the boat .
Without herself knowing why or wherefore , the management of the house attracted her irresistibly .
Levin had never thought it possible that between him and his wife there could ever be any but tender , respectful , and loving relations , and yet from the very beginning they had quarrelled : she had said he did not love her , but only loved himself , and began to cry and wave her arms .
For a moment he felt like a man who , receiving a blow from behind , angrily and revengefully turns round to find his assailant and realizes that he has accidentally knocked himself , that there is no one to be angry with and that he must endure and try to still the pain .
His natural feelings prompted him to justify himself and prove that she was in the wrong ; but to prove her in the wrong would mean irritating her still more , and widening the breach which was the cause of all the trouble .
To remain under so unjust an accusation was painful , but to justify himself and hurt her would be still worse .
In his heart he blamed her , but he did not understand that she was preparing herself for a period of activity which was inevitably coming , when at one and the same time she would be her husband 's wife , the mistress of the house , and a bearer , nurturer , and educator of her children .
He did not understand that , but she knew it instinctively ; and while getting ready for her gigantic task she did not reproach herself for the moments of careless and happy love that she now enjoyed while building her nest for the future .
Levin blushed with shame and vexation at his wife for having placed herself and him in this awkward position ; but Mary Nikolavna blushed still more .
He had expected to feel the same sorrow at the loss of a loved brother and the same horror of death he had then experienced , but to a greater degree , and had prepared himself for all this ; but what he found was quite different .
Taking advantage of the first moment of silence , Levin got up , wishing to free himself if only for a few minutes from his painful sensations , and said he would fetch his wife .
She sent for the doctor , sent to the chemist 's , made the maid she had brought with her help Mary Nikolavna sweep , dust , and wash ; and herself washed and scrubbed some articles and spread something under the blanket . At her command things were brought in and taken out of the sick-room .
The invalid himself , washed and with his hair brushed , lay between clean sheets in a clean shirt , its white collar round his abnormally thin neck , gazing with a new look of hope at Kitty and not taking his eyes off her .
He thought of the Gospel text not because he considered himself wise - he did not - but because he could not help knowing that he was more intelligent than his wife and Agatha Mikhaylovna ; he could not help knowing that when he thought about death he thought with all the powers of his soul .
He said , addressing himself to God , ' If Thou dost exist , heal this man ( such things have often happened ) , and Thou wilt save both him and me ! '
But you and I can not deceive ourselves like that !
Even the memories , impressions , and thoughts , within his body now aroused in him the same sort of repulsion as the body itself .
Those about him felt this , and unconsciously did not permit themselves either to move freely , talk or express their own wishes in his presence .
The prayers were not yet ended when the dying man stretched himself ; sighed and opened his eyes .
Scarcely had the unexplained mystery of death been enacted before his eyes when another mystery just as inexplicable presented itself , calling to love and life .
FROM THE MOMENT THAT KARENIN UNDERSTOOD from his conversations with Betsy and Oblonsky that all that was asked of him was that he should leave his wife in peace and not trouble her with his presence and that his wife herself wished this , he felt so lost that he could decide nothing for himself , did not know what he now wanted , and having placed himself in the hands of those who with so much pleasure busied themselves with his affairs , he consented to everything .
Had his wife then , after confessing her infidelity , left him , he would have been grieved and unhappy , but he would not have felt himself to be in such an unintelligible impasse as now .
But if you wish us to address ourselves to her Excellency , please be so good as to let us have her address ! '
He knew that the only way of escape from men was to hide his wounds from them . He had unconsciously tried to do so for two days , and now felt himself unable to continue the unequal struggle .
Having taken a medal on finishing , both at school and at the university , Karenin , by his uncle 's help , started at once on a conspicuous path in the Civil Service , and from that time devoted himself entirely to official ambition .
He could not think of that bill , made out on blue paper for a bonnet and ribbons , without pitying himself .
He was a believer , interested in religion chiefly from a political point of view , and this new teaching which allowed itself some novel interpretation , just because it paved the way for disputes and analyses , was repugnant to him on principle .
He saw nothing impossible or incongruous in the notion that death which exists for the unbeliever did not exist for him , and that as he possessed complete faith - of the measure of which he himself was the judge - there was no longer any sin in his soul , and he already experienced complete salvation here on earth .
But from the time she took Karenin under her special protection after his misfortune - from the time she exerted herself in his house , labouring for his welfare - she felt that all her other passions were unreal and that she now truly loved only Karenin .
She caught herself meditating on what might have been had she not married and had he been free .
I address myself to you , instead of to Alexis Alexandrovich , only because I do not wish to give pain to that high-minded man by reminding him of myself .
Then she had wished to adorn herself somehow , the more the better ; now , on the contrary , she was obliged to be adorned so unsuitably to her age and figure , that she was only concerned that the incongruity between these adornments and her own appearance should not be too dreadful .
Never having occupied himself with educational matters before , he devoted some time to studying the matter theoretically . After reading several books on anthropology , pedagogics , and didactics , he formed a plan of education , and having engaged the best Petersburg educationalist for supervision , he set to work .
' Well , now we can sit down quietly , ' said she with an agitated smile , as she squeezed herself in between the table and sofa , ' and have a chat over our tea . '
' But wherein am I to blame ? ' he asked himself , and as usual that question suggested another : Did those others - those Vronskys and Oblonskys and those fat-calved chamberlains - feel differently , love differently , marry differently ?
He drove these thoughts from him , and tried to convince himself that he was not living for the present temporal life but for eternal life , and that his soul was full of peace and love .
Why does he repulse me ? Why does he not love me ? ' he asked himself sadly , and could find no answer .
You see , if you take pains and learn in order to get a reward , the work will seem hard ; but when you work ' ( Karenin said this remembering how he had sustained himself that morning by a sense of duty in the dull task of signing a hundred and eighteen papers ) - ' if you love your work , you will find your reward in that . '
It was the same long-familiar tone in which his father always addressed him , and to which Serezha had already learnt to adapt himself .
He spent all the evening working , and dreaming how a windmill could be made on which one could ride , either by seizing one of the sails or by tying oneself to it and spinning round .
He did not think about his mother all the evening ; but when in bed he suddenly remembered her , and prayed in his own words that tomorrow , on his birthday , she should stop hiding herself and should come to him .
Despite all his experience of the world , Vronsky , in the new position in which he found himself , was making a terrible mistake .
Vronsky understood that it was vain to make any further attempts and that they would have to spend those few days in Petersburg as in a strange town , avoiding contact with their former world in order not to lay themselves open to unpleasantnesses and insults which were so painful to him .
She did not ask herself how she should contrive it .
It seemed to her natural and simple that she should see her son when she was in the same town with him . But on reaching Petersburg her present social position presented itself clearly to her , and she realized that it would be difficult to arrange the meeting .
To meet her son when he was out for a walk , after finding out when and where he went , was not enough : she had been preparing herself so for that meeting , had so much to say to him , and so much wanted to embrace and kiss him !
Never had she felt so humiliated as when , having called in the commissionaire , she heard from him the full account of how he had waited and had then been told that there would be no answer . Anna felt herself humiliated and wounded , but she saw that the Countess Lydia Ivanovna was right from her own point of view .
The Countess 's silence had made her feel humble , but the letter and what she read between its lines so irritated her , its malevolence seemed so revolting when compared with her passionate and legitimate love for her son , that she became indignant with others and ceased to blame herself .
Noticing the stranger 's confusion , Kapitonich himself came out , admitted her , and inquired what she wanted .
To the right of the door stood a bed on which sat the boy , his nightshirt unbuttoned , bending his little body backward , stretching himself and finishing his yawn .
He raised himself again on his elbow , moved his tousled head from side to side as if seeking for something , and opened his eyes .
Sleepily smiling with closed eyes , he moved his plump hands from the back of his bed to her shoulders , leaning against her and enveloping her in that sweet scent of sleepiness and warmth which only children possess , and began rubbing himself against her neck and shoulder .
' Mama ! Dearest , darling ! ' he shouted , again throwing himself upon her , and embracing her , as if he by now , having seen her smile , clearly realized what had happened .
' Oh , nurse dear , I did not know you were in the house , ' said Anna , rousing herself for a moment .
GREATLY AS ANNA HAD DESIRED TO SEE HER SON , and long as she had thought of and prepared herself for the interview , she had not at all expected that it would affect her so powerfully .
If I know it , then I know what I shall do , ' she told herself , powerless to imagine the position she would find herself in when she was convinced of his indifference .
And what is happening to her ? ' he asked himself .
The valet , conscious that he was not to blame , was about to defend himself , but , glancing at his master saw by his face that there was nothing for it but to keep silence ; so , stooping quickly , he knelt on the carpet and began sorting out the whole and broken glasses and bottles .
Serpukhovskoy had long ago ceased to trouble himself about Vronsky 's career , but was as fond of him as ever and was particularly amiable to him now .
Those who did not know her and her set , and heard none of the expressions of pity , indignation , or surprise uttered by the women because she had allowed herself to appear in public and to show herself so ostentatiously in her lace head-dress and in all her beauty , admired the composure and loveliness of the woman , and did not suspect that she felt as though pilloried .
He was disturbed both by vexation with Anna for placing herself and him in this false position , and by pity for her sufferings .
' I always buy dress materials for the maids myself , at the sales , ' the Princess said , continuing the conversation . ' Is it not time to take the scum off , my dear ? ' she added , turning to Agatha Mikhaylovna .
The exact reverse , ' she added , struck by her thought . ' Then Anna was so happy and Kitty considered herself miserable .
' No , but he is so used to living a purely spiritual life that he can not reconcile himself to realities , and , after all , Varenka is a reality ! '
She could not have expressed the sequence of thoughts that made her smile , but the last deduction was that her husband , in extolling his brother and depreciating himself , was not quite sincere .
How can you jump so ! ' he said , interrupting the conversation to rebuke her for making too quick a movement while stepping over a branch that lay across the path . ' But when I examine myself and compare myself with others , especially with my brother , I feel how bad I am . '
His sense of pleasure at her nearness went on increasing until it reached a point where , when placing in her basket an enormous wood mushroom with a thin stem and up-curling top , he looked into her eyes and , noting the flush of joyful and frightened agitation that suffused her face , he himself became embarrassed and gave her a smile that said too much .
' If it is so , I must think it over and come to a decision , and not let myself be carried away like a boy by the impulse of the moment , ' he told himself .
But it is nothing of the kind . The one thing I can find against it is that when I lost Marie I told myself that I would remain true to her memory .
But he came of a long-lived race , he had not a single grey hair , no one thought he was forty , and he remembered that Varenka had said it was only in Russia that men of fifty considered themselves old , and that in France a man of fifty considered himself dans la force de l 'ge , [ In the prime of life . ] while one of forty was un jeune homme .
Varenka 's heart beat so that she seemed to hear it , and she felt herself growing red and then pale and red again .
They did not know that pleasant as it was for her to stay with her daughter and necessary as she felt herself to be there , she suffered keenly , both on her own and on her husband 's account , since they gave their last and favourite daughter in marriage and the family nest was left empty .
Levin offered to replace her , but having once heard Levin giving the lesson and noticing that he was not doing it the same way as the master who had coached the boy in Moscow , she - though embarrassed and anxious not to offend Levin - told him resolutely that the text-book must be followed in the master 's way and that she would rather give the lessons herself .
Levin was vexed with Oblonsky for carelessly leaving it to the boy 's mother to look after his lessons which she did not understand , instead of doing it himself , and he was vexed with the masters also for teaching the children so badly ; but he promised his sister-in-law to give the lessons in the way she wished .
' Well , is there any game ? ' asked Oblonsky of Levin scarcely giving himself time to say a word of greeting to everybody . ' He and I have the cruellest intentions ...
' It 's very nice at their place , ' Vasenka was saying , talking of Vronsky and Anna . ' Of course I do not take it upon myself to judge , but in their house one feels oneself to be in a family . '
Already he fancied himself a deceived husband , necessary to his wife and her lover only to provide them with the comforts of life and with pleasures ...
Happily for Levin the old Princess put a stop to his sufferings by herself getting up and advising Kitty to go to bed .
He stood before her , his eyes glittering terribly under his frowning brows , and pressed his powerful arms to his breast , as if trying with all his might to restrain himself .
' Come , Kostya , you are exaggerating ! ' remonstrated Kitty , at the bottom of her heart pleased by the force of love for her which was now expressing itself in his jealousy .
How could I torture myself like that about such nonsense ? '
Levin jumped down from the cart where he had already seated himself , to meet the carpenter who was approaching with a sazhen measure in his hand .
' If only I do n't disgrace myself before that stranger ! If only Oblonsky 's shooting does not beat mine ! ' was his thought .
Levin himself felt inclined to stop at those little places , but , as they were near home , they were always within his reach and they were small , so that there was not room enough for three persons to shoot there .
But when heated with the work , and seeing Veslovsky pulling at the splashboard so strenuously and zealously that he actually wrenched it off , Levin reproached himself with being influenced by his sentiments of the previous day and with treating Veslovsky too coldly , and he tried to efface his unfriendliness by particular courtesy .
When they got to the real marsh , the object of their journey , Levin involuntarily wished to rid himself of Vasenka and go about unhindered .
They kept rising before the dogs and at the very feet of the sportsmen , and Levin might have recovered himself ; but the oftener he fired the more he disgraced himself before Veslovsky , who was puffing away merrily , in and out of range , never killing anything , but not in the least abashed thereby .
' No ! I must pull myself together , ' he thought , picked up his gun and hat , called Laska to heel , and got out of the marsh .
Despite the dirtiness of the hut , soiled by the sportsmen 's boots , the dirty dogs that were licking themselves there , and despite the smell of bog and of powder and the absence of knives and forks , the sportsmen drank tea and ate supper with a relish known only when one is out shooting .
Washed and clean they betook themselves to a half-barn that had been swept out and where the coachman had made up beds for the gentlemen .
Down , Krak ! ' exclaimed Oblonsky to the dog that was scratching itself and turning round in the hay .
' If only one could ... go without getting up ! ' said Oblonsky , stretching himself . ' It 's delightful to lie still . '
It seemed to him that he had expressed his thoughts and feelings as clearly as he could , yet both the others - sincere and not stupid men - had agreed that he was comforting himself with sophistry .
The words he had used when he said he was acting justly in a negative sense occupied his mind . ' Is it possible that one can act justly only in a negative sense ? ' he asked himself .
' Do n't I see how you have placed yourself with your wife ?
He heard his horses chewing hay ; then how the master and his eldest son got ready and rode away for the night to pasture their horses ; then how the soldier settled down to sleep on the other side of the barn with his nephew , their host 's little son ; he heard the boy in his treble voice imparting to his uncle his impressions of the dogs , which seemed to him terrible and enormous ; then how the boy asked what those dogs were going to catch , and he heard how the soldier replied in a hoarse and sleepy voice that the sportsmen would go next day to the marshes and fire guns , adding , to stop the questioning : ' Sleep , Vaska , sleep , or else look out ! ' Soon the soldier himself began to snore , and all was still except for the neighing of the horses and the cry of snipe .
Crows were flying to the fields , and a barefooted boy was already driving the horses toward an old man , who had got up from beneath his coat and sat scratching himself .
He must say something to the mistress of the house , ' Levin told himself .
Whether there was something unusual in Levin 's face , or whether Vasenka himself felt that ' le petit brin de cour ' which he had started was out of place in this family , he was embarrassed ( as far as is permissible to a man in Society ) by Levin 's entry .
Vasenka drew himself up .
He himself felt not only that he was in the highest degree ridiculous , but quite guilty and disgraced ; but recalling what he and his wife had suffered , and asking himself how he would act another time , he answered that he would do just the same again .
I myself , without having a moment 's peace , now pregnant , now nursing , always cross and grumbling , tormenting myself and others , repulsive to my husband - I shall live my life , and produce unfortunate , badly brought-up and beggared children .
So I ca n't even give the children a start myself , unless it 's with other people 's help and with humiliation .
I was still attractive then , still had my good looks , ' she went on , feeling that she wanted to see herself in a glass .
At Anna 's side , on a heated bay cavalry horse , stretching out his fat legs and evidently admiring himself , rode Vasenka Veslovsky , wearing the Scotch bonnet with waving ribbons , and Dolly could not repress a merry smile on recognizing him .
' Yes , quite big , ' answered Dolly shortly , and was herself surprised that she could talk so coldly about her children . ' We are very comfortable at the Levins ' , ' she added .
She was ashamed of the very patches and darns on which she at home prided herself .
A Russian nursemaid was feeding the child and evidently herself eating also .
On hearing Anna 's voice a smart tall Englishwoman with an unpleasant face and an impure look came into the room , rapidly shaking her fair curls , and at once began excusing herself , though Anna had not accused her of anything .
Glancing round at the grown-up people with her large radiant black eyes , like a little animal , evidently pleased that she was being admired , she smiled , and turning out her feet , energetically supported herself on her hands , drew her lower limbs forward , and then again advanced her hands .
Dolly was somewhat embarrassed and troubled by the quite novel circle she found herself in .
Shall we go ? ' he suggested , glancing at her face to assure himself that she really was not bored .
Everything interested Dolly and everything pleased her , especially Vronsky himself with his natural and naive enthusiasm . ' Yes , he is a very nice , good fellow , ' she thought again and again , not listening to him but looking at him , understanding his expression , and mentally putting herself in Anna 's place .
As soon as they had passed through the gate back into the garden , he glanced in the direction Anna had taken , and having assured himself that she could not hear or see them , he began .
' Well , to continue ! ' he said , recovering himself . ' The principal thing is that when working I want the assurance that the work will not die with me , that I shall have heirs ; and that I have not got .
' Well , this brings me to the point of my talk , ' he went on , calming himself with an effort . ' Anna can do it ; . it depends on her ...
But how is it she herself does not think of it ? ' asked Dolly , suddenly remembering that strange new habit Anna had of screwing up her eyes . And she remembered that it was just when the intimate side of life was in question that Anna screwed up her eyes .
We have dirtied ourselves on the buildings . '
The ladies rose ; Vronsky asked Sviyazhsky to take in Anna , and himself went up to Dolly .
Dolly observed all this luxury , which was new to her , and , as a housewife herself controlling a household , she could not help noting the details ( though she had no hope of putting what she observed to practical use in her own home , so far was such luxury above her way of life ) and asking herself how it was all done and by whom .
He , as well as the other men , had with the ladies ' permission taken off his coat , and his large handsome figure in white shirt-sleeves , his ruddy perspiring face and impetuous movements , stamped themselves on the memories of the onlookers .
She had come with the intention of staying two days if she could adapt herself to the life .
She wanted to reproduce the arguments with which she had so often convinced herself .
She rose , drew herself up , sighed deeply , and with her light steps began pacing up and down the room , pausing occasionally . ' I not consider it ?
But what would it mean ? ' said Anna , evidently expressing a thought she had considered a thousand times and knew by heart . ' It means that I , who hate him but yet acknowledge myself to blame toward him - and I do think him magnanimous - I must humiliate myself by writing to him ... !
She had pitied Anna from the bottom of her heart while they were talking ; but now she could not make herself think about her .
When they had driven into the fields Dolly experienced a pleasant feeling of relief , and she was about to ask the men how they had liked the Vronskys ' place , when suddenly Philip the coachman himself remarked :
As time went on , the oftener he felt himself caught in these meshes the more he desired , not exactly to escape from them but to try whether they really interfered with his freedom .
It was autumn , the dullest and most depressing time of year in the country , and so Vronsky , bracing himself for a struggle , announced his departure in a sterner and colder way than he had ever before used to Anna .
However , Levin had changed considerably since his marriage ; he had become patient , and if he did not understand why things were arranged thus , he told himself that , not knowing everything , he could not judge , and that probably things had to be so ; and he tried not to be indignant .
He was demanding the very thing Koznyshev was proposing ; but he evidently hated Koznyshev and his party , and this hatred communicated itself to all those on his side , and in turn evoked a similar , though more decently expressed , feeling of conflicting anger from the opposing party .
But the old party did not consider itself defeated .
Whether those tears resulted from a consciousness of injustice done him , or from love for the Nobility , or from the strained situation in which he found himself , surrounded by enemies , at any rate his emotion communicated itself . The majority of the nobles were touched and Levin felt a tenderness for Snetkov .
The elections themselves interested him so much that he began to think that if he were married by the next triennial election he would himself put up , just as , when a jockey had won him a prize , he had wished to ride a race himself .
Nevedovsky pretended not merely to be indifferent to but to despise this title ; but it was evident that he felt happy and exercised self-control to avoid betraying a delight ill-suited to the new Liberal circle in which they found themselves .
I wished to come myself , but changed my mind knowing that you would not like it .
Baby was ill , and she wished to come herself ?
True , there was one means , not of holding him - for that purpose she wished for nothing except his love - but of putting herself in such a position that he could not abandon her .
' And you ? ' he asked , giving himself a shake .
' It was such a strange letter . Annie was ill , yet you wished to come yourself ! '
Daily expecting Karenin 's reply , to be followed by a divorce , they now established themselves like a married couple .
The only thing Kitty could reproach herself with when that visit was over was that for an instant , on recognizing Vronsky 's once so familiar figure in his civilian clothes , she grew breathless , the blood rushed to her heart , and she felt a deep flush suffusing her face .
A stranger arrives , sits down , remains a while doing nothing , disturbs them , upsets himself , and goes away again . '
But afterwards , having convinced himself that they looked at the question so differently that they would never understand one another , he ceased making objections and merely listened .
He liked this phrase , but could not remember whether he had not used it before , and to Pestsov himself , and after saying it he grew embarrassed .
' Of course it 's all the same to me , but still it makes one ashamed , and it 's awfully stupid , ' thought Levin , comforting himself with the reflection that everybody does it ; and he went on to the meeting of the committee where he had to meet his sister-in-law in order to accompany her to his own home .
The military man , with merry , ever-laughing eyes , who held himself very erect , was Gagin , from Petersburg .
Only for the first few moments , while they were leaving the courtyard of the club , did Levin retain that sense of club calm , pleasure , and undoubted decorum in his surroundings ; but as soon as the carriage had passed out into the street and he felt it jolting on the uneven road , heard the angry shouts of an izvoshchik they met , saw in the ill-lit street the red signboards of a vodka dealer and of a small shop , that sense was dissipated , and he began to consider his actions and to ask himself whether he was doing right in going to see Anna .
She is writing a children 's book and does not speak of it to anyone , but she read it to me and I showed the manuscript to Vorkuyev ... You know , the publisher ... he writes himself , I think .
While Oblonsky passed behind a screen of trellis-work - and the man 's voice that had been speaking became silent - Levin looked at the portrait , which in the bright illumination seemed to step out of its frame , and he could not tear himself away from it .
Levin flushed , and to hide his confusion was about to ask her if it was long since she had seen Dolly , but at that instant Anna herself began to speak .
' What a woman ! ' thought Levin , and , quite forgetting himself , he gazed fixedly at her beautiful mobile face , which had now suddenly quite changed .
They are very nice children , but I could not attach myself to the work .
She asked Levin and Vorkuyev to pass on into the drawing-room , and herself remained behind to speak to her brother . ' About the divorce ?
' It 's surprising how all one 's time gets taken up here , ' he thought with reference to the second letter . He felt himself to blame because he had not yet done what his sister asked of him .
All the events had consisted of conversations : conversations to which he had listened or in which he had taken part . All these conversations were about matters he would never have occupied himself with had he been in the country , but here they were very interesting .
' Oh no ! ' she said , but he saw by her eyes the effort she made to control herself , and it boded him no good .
I restrain myself , wait , invent occupations for myself , - the English family , writing , reading , but all that is only deception , it is all a kind of morphia .
She might pity herself , but he must not pity her .
' Nothing , nothing ! ' she replied . ' I do n't know myself whether it is this lonely life , or nerves ...
THERE ARE NO CONDITIONS OF LIFE to which a man can not accustom himself , especially if he sees that every one around him lives in the same way .
Three months previously Levin would not have believed that he could quietly fall asleep under the circumstances in which he now found himself : that while leading an aimless , senseless life , one moreover that was above his means , after tippling ( he could call what had happened in the club by no other name ) , after showing unsuitable friendship to the man with whom his wife had once been in love , and after a still more unsuitable visit to a woman who could only be called a fallen woman , and after being allured by her and having grieved his wife - that in such circumstances he could quietly fall asleep .
It was necessary for him to go , but he could not tear himself away from the sight of her : He had loved that face and known all its expressions and looks , but he had never seen her as she was now .
He stopped at the door and heard Kitty give detailed instructions to the maid , and with her help herself move the bed .
To whom should he appeal , if not to Him in whose hands he felt himself , his soul , and his love , to be ?
This attention to his glasses and indifference to what was taking place at the Levins ' astonished Levin at first , but he immediately recollected himself and realized that no one knew or was bound to know his feelings , and that it was therefore all the more necessary to act calmly , deliberately , and firmly in order to break through this wall of indifference and to attain his aim . ' Do not hurry and do not omit anything , ' he said to himself , conscious of an increasing uplift of his physical powers and of his attention to all that lay before him .
Trying to be as exact as possible , Levin began recounting every unnecessary detail of his wife 's position , continually interrupting himself to beg the doctor to accompany him at once .
From the moment when he woke up and understood what was the matter Levin had braced himself to endure what might await him , without reasoning and without anticipating anything - firmly suppressing all his thoughts and feelings , determined not to upset his wife but on the contrary to calm and support her .
Not allowing himself even to think of what was about to happen and how it would end , judging by inquiries he had made as to the time such affairs usually lasted , Levin mentally prepared himself to endure and to keep his heart under restraint for something like five hours , which seemed to him within his power .
But after that hour another passed , a second , a third , and all the five hours that he had set himself as the longest term of possible endurance , and still the situation was unchanged ; and he went on enduring , for there was nothing else to do but to endure - thinking every moment that he had reached the utmost limit of endurance and that in a moment his heart would burst with pity .
And every time when the screams that came from the bedroom roused him from momentary forgetfulness he succumbed to the same strange error that had possessed him in the first moments : every time , on hearing the scream , he jumped up and ran to justify himself , but recollected on the way that he was not to blame and that he longed to protect and help her .
And suddenly , out of the mysterious , terrible , and unearthly world in which he had been living for the last twenty-two hours , Levin felt himself instantaneously transported back to the old everyday world , but now radiant with the light of such new joy that it was insupportable .
And amid the silence , as a positive answer to the mother 's question , a voice quite unlike all the restrained voices that had been speaking in the room made itself heard .
He could not at all accustom himself to the idea .
Levin listened to them and at the same time involuntarily thought of the past and of what had been going on before that morning , remembering himself as he had been yesterday before this event .
He talked but never ceased thinking of his wife , of the details of her present condition , and of his son - to the idea of whose existence he painstakingly tried to accustom himself .
Kitty turned her eyes and gazed fixedly in the same direction . ' Let me have him , let me have him ! ' she said , and was even going to raise herself .
I address myself to you not as ... ' He was going to say , ' as an offended husband , ' but , afraid of injuring his case thereby , he changed the expression to ' not as a statesman ' ( this sounded inappropriate ) ' but simply as a man , a kind man and a Christian !
' For heaven 's sake do n't excite yourself , ' said Oblonsky , touching his brother-in-law 's knee . ' The matter is not closed .
She appreciated it to such a degree that , at the moment , feeling herself to blame toward you , she did not consider and could not consider everything .
He knew that his father and mother had had a quarrel which separated them ; knew that it was his fate to remain with his father , and he tried to accustom himself to that thought .
The others all harness themselves to it - they may do it with their hands or their belts - and then off they go through all the rooms .
' I expect you hurt yourself when you fell down ? ' said the tutor . ' I told you it was a dangerous game .
' If I had hurt myself no one would have known it , that is quite certain ! '
Besides business - his sister 's divorce and his post - it was as usual necessary for him , as he said , to refresh himself in Petersburg after the mustiness of Moscow .
In Moscow he sometimes noticed some grey hairs ; fell asleep after dinner ; stretched himself ; walked slowly upstairs , breathing heavily ; felt dull among young women , and did not dance at balls .
In Moscow he let himself go to such an extent that , had he continued to live there long , he might even have come to the soul-saving stage ; but in Petersburg he again felt quite a smart fellow .
Lydia Ivanovna rapidly read the note and , excusing herself , with extreme rapidity wrote and despatched the answer and returned to the table . ' I have noticed , ' she continued her interrupted sentence , ' that Muscovites , men especially , are most indifferent to religion . '
He smoothed his whiskers to hide the yawn , and gave himself a shake .
But then he felt himself falling asleep , and nearly snored .
He roused himself , just when the Countess Lydia Ivanovna uttered the words : ' He is asleep . '
He went up to the Frenchman and placed his hand in his . Oblonsky also rose and , opening his eyes wide to wake himself up in case he was asleep , looked first at one and then at the other .
It was an inner irritation , caused on her side by a diminution of his love for her , and on his by regret that for her sake he had placed himself in a distressing situation , which she , instead of trying to alleviate , made still harder .
To-day he had been away from home all day , and she had felt so lonely , and it was so painful to feel herself at discord with him , that she wished to forget it all , to forgive and make it up with him . Wishing even to blame herself and to justify him , she said to herself :
It was no longer the Queen of Sweden 's instructress but the Princess Sorokina who lived in the country near Moscow with the Countess Vronskaya who presented herself to Anna 's imagination .
For a moment she recollected herself and was horrified at having broken her resolution .
Yet though she knew she was ruining her cause , she could not restrain herself , could not forbear pointing out to him how wrong he was , and could not submit to him .
And standing before her he slowly brought out : ' Why are you testing my patience ? ' He looked as if he could have said much more , but restrained himself .
' But how ? ' she asked herself , and sat down in the arm-chair before the looking-glass .
Thoughts of where she would now go : to the aunt who had brought her up , to Dolly , or simply abroad by herself ; of what he was now doing , alone in the study ; of whether this quarrel was final or whether a reconciliation was still possible ; of what all her former Petersburg acquaintances would say of her now ; how Karenin would regard it ; and many other thoughts about what would happen now after the rupture , passed through her mind , but she did not give herself up entirely to these thoughts .
' You know yourself ? ' said she , and at the same moment , unable to restrain herself any longer , she burst into tears .
' Anna , why torture yourself and me like this ? ' he said , kissing her hands .
' Oh no , I shall not be ready myself , ' she said , and immediately thought : ' So it was possible to arrange things as I wished ! ' - ' No , do as you wished to . Go to the dining-room , I will come directly .
' I never asked myself , Anna Arkadyevna , whether I am sorry or not .
In the morning a terrible nightmare , which had come to her several times even before her union with Vronsky , repeated itself and woke her . An old man with a tangled beard was leaning over some iron and doing something , while muttering senseless words in French ; and as always in that nightmare ( this was what made it terrible ) she felt this peasant was paying no attention to her but was doing something dreadful to her with the iron .
She could not now understand how she could have humiliated herself so as to remain a whole day with him in his house .
Alarmed by the despairing look with which she had said these words , he jumped up , intending to run after her , but , recollecting himself , he sat down again , tightly clenching his teeth and frowning .
Oh ! And did I brush my hair or not ? ' she asked herself ; but could not remember .
' But what shall I do myself ? ' she thought . ' Yes I will go to Dolly 's , of course , or else I shall go out of my mind !
' Yes , I will go , ' said Anna , recovering and rousing herself ; ' and if a telegram comes during my absence , send it to Darya Alexandrovna 's ...
She reproached herself now with the humiliation to which she had descended . ' I entreated him to forgive me .
He may have missed the train and be back already . Wanting to humiliate yourself again ! ' she said to herself .
And of me he thinks with hate and regrets having joined himself to me ! '
She attributed that animosity to the awkward position Anna , who had formerly patronized her , now felt herself to be in , and she was sorry for her .
ANNA RESEATED HERSELF IN THE CALCHE in a state of mind even worse than when she left home .
I do n't even know myself ! "
They are ringing for vespers , and how carefully that tradesman is crossing himself , as if he were afraid of dropping something !
' I shall have time . ' She gave the order to harness another pair of horses , and busied herself packing her handbag with things necessary for a few days .
He is weary of me and is trying not to act dishonourably toward me . Yesterday he betrayed himself - he wants the divorce and a marriage in order to burn his boats .
For me everything centres in him , and I demand that he should give himself up to me more and more completely .
No ! ' she now answered herself without the least hesitation . ' It is impossible !
Are we not all flung into the world only to hate each other , and therefore to torment ourselves and others ?
She mounted the high step of the railway carriage and seated herself in an empty compartment on the dirty - though once white - cover of the spring seat .
At last the third bell rang , the engine whistled and creaked , the coupling chains gave a jerk , and the husband crossed himself . ' It would be interesting to ask him what he means by it , ' thought Anna , regarding him spitefully .
At the point that I can not imagine a situation in which life would not be a torment ; that we all have been created in order to suffer , and that we all know this and all try to invent means of deceiving ourselves .
And glancing at the red-cheeked husband and his thin wife , she saw that the sickly wife considered herself misunderstood , and that the husband deceived her and encouraged her in her opinion of herself .
A feeling seized her like that she had experienced when preparing to enter the water in bathing , and she crossed herself .
The familiar gesture of making the sign of the cross called up a whole series of girlish and childish memories , and suddenly the darkness , that obscured everything from her , broke , and life showed itself to her for an instant with all its bright past joys .
But she did not take her eyes off the wheels of the approaching second truck , and at the very moment when the midway point between the wheels drew level , she threw away her red bag , and drawing her head down between her shoulders threw herself forward on her hands under the truck , and with a light movement as if preparing to rise again immediately dropped on her knees .
She wished to rise , to throw herself back , but something huge and relentless struck her on the head and dragged her down . ' God forgive me everything ! ' she said , feeling the impossibility of struggling ...
' Did not I offend him in some way ? ' he asked himself .
Discussions in drawing-rooms , at meetings , at assemblies , in committees , and everywhere where one could speak , took up part of his time ; but , as an habitual town-dweller , he did not allow himself to be entirely absorbed by discussions , as his inexperienced brother did when he was in Moscow ; so he had much superfluous leisure and mental energy .
Fortunately for him , at this most trying time , after the failure of his book , in place of the questions of Dissent , our American friends , the Samara Famine , the Exhibitions , and Spiritualism , the Slavonic question - which had previously only smouldered in Society - came to the front , and Koznyshev , who had previously been one of the promoters of that cause , devoted himself to it entirely .
He devoted himself completely to the service of that great movement and forgot to think about his book .
You know , les petites misres de la vie humaine , ' [ The little miseries of human life . ] he said to the Princess , as if to excuse himself . ' And the Princess Myagkaya , not Lisa but Bibish , is really sending a thousand rifles and twelve nurses !
Not only is he going himself , but he is taking a whole squadron at his own expense . '
He knew what a military man ought to be , and by the appearance and talk of those men , and by the swagger with which they applied themselves to their flasks on the way , he considered them bad soldiers .
We took away everything that he could kill himself with . We lived on the ground floor , but one could not tell what he might do .
You know he had once before shot himself on her account ? ' she said , and the old woman 's brows knit at the recollection . ' Yes , she ended as such a woman deserved to end .
In the evening I had only just gone to my room when my Mary told me that at the station a lady had thrown herself under a train .
Well , she proved it ! She ruined herself and two splendid men - her husband and my unfortunate son . '
But my poor son had given himself up to her entirely .
No , say what you will , her death itself was the death of a horrid woman , without religion .
Having twice walked past the sacks and mastered himself , he turned calmly to Koznyshev :
I was so busy that I did not know when I could tear myself away .
' Yes , yes ! Hush ! ... ' was all Kitty answered as she sat softly rocking herself and tenderly pressing the little plump arm , which looked as if a thread had been tied round the wrist , and was still feebly waving while Mitya kept shutting and opening his eyes .
He says himself that he would like to believe .
What astounded and upset him most in this connection , was that the majority of those in his set and of his age , having like himself replaced their former beliefs by new convictions like his own ; did not see anything to be distressed about , and were quite contented and tranquil . So that , besides the principal question , Levin was tormented by other questions : Were these people sincere ?
Latterly in Moscow and in the country , having convinced himself that he could get no answer from the materialists , he read through and re-read Plato , Spinoza , Kant , Schelling , Hegel , and Schopenhauer , those philosophers who explained life otherwise than materialistically .
Their thoughts seemed to him fruitful when he read , or was himself devising refutations of other teachings , the materialistic in particular ; but as soon as he began reading , or himself devised , solutions to life 's problems , the same thing occurred every time .
' In an infinity of time , and in infinity of matter , in infinite space , a bubble , a bubble organism , separates itself , and that bubble maintains itself awhile and then bursts , and that bubble is - I ! '
It was the latest belief . It was the ruling conviction and from among all other explanations Levin , without himself knowing when or how , had involuntarily chosen it as being at any rate the clearest of all .
And though he was a happy and healthy family man , Levin was several times so near to suicide that he hid a cord he had lest he should hang himself , and he feared to carry a gun lest he should shoot himself .
But he did not hang or shoot himself and went on living .
WHEN LEVIN THOUGHT about what he was and why he lived , he could find no answer and was driven to despair ; but when he left off asking himself those questions he seemed to know what he was and why he lived , for he acted and lived unfalteringly and definitely - recently even more unfalteringly than before .
Formerly ( it had been so almost from childhood and increasingly so till his complete maturity ) when he tried to do anything for the good of everybody , for humanity , for Russia , for the whole village , he had noticed that the thoughts of it were agreeable , but the activity itself was always unsatisfactory ; there was no full assurance that the work was really necessary , and the activity itself , which at first seemed so great , ever lessened and lessened till it vanished .
But now since his marriage , when he began to confine himself more and more to living for himself , though he no longer felt any joy at the thought of his activity , he felt confident that his work was necessary , saw that it progressed far better than formerly , and that it was always growing more and more .
Having lived most of his life in the country and in close contact with the peasants , Levin always felt , at this busy time , that this general stimulation of the peasants communicated itself to him .
Levin went up to the roller , motioned Theodore aside and himself began feeding the machine .
' What have I discovered ? ' he asked himself , turning back the leaf that it should not hinder the insect and bending another blade for the creature to pass on to .
I have freed myself from deception and learnt to know my Master .
Having then for the first time clearly understood that before every man , and before himself , there lay only suffering , death , and eternal oblivion , he had concluded that to live under such conditions was impossible ; that one must either explain life to oneself so that it does not seem to be an evil mockery by some sort of devil , or one must shoot oneself .
' But can I believe in all that the Church professes ? ' he asked himself , testing himself by everything which might destroy his present peace of mind .
They bring their-mites , or go themselves , and say straight out why they do it .
Twenty years ago we should have been silent , but now we hear the voice of the Russian people , who are ready to arise as one man and to sacrifice themselves for their oppressed brethren .
' But it 's not a question of sacrificing themselves only , but of killing Turks , ' remarked Levin timidly . ' The people sacrifice and are ready to sacrifice for the good of their souls , but not for murder , ' he added , involuntarily connecting the conversation with the thoughts that so engrossed him .
He saw that it was not possible to convince his brother and Katavasov , and still less did he see any possibility of himself agreeing with them .
He could not agree with this , because he neither saw the expression of those thoughts in the people among whom he lived , nor did he find any such thoughts in himself ( and he could not consider himself as other than one of those who constituted the Russian people ) . Above all , he could not agree because he , together with the people , did not know and could not know wherein lay the general welfare , but knew definitely that the attainment of this welfare was only possible by a strict fulfilment of the law of goodness which is revealed to every man , and therefore could not desire or preach war for any kind of general aims .
We had hardly ... ' Kitty began excusing herself .
Now it was not as it used to be with him when he. had invented ways of tranquillizing himself and had been obliged to recapitulate the whole train of reflections in order to arrive at the feeling .
' Well , what is perplexing me ? ' Levin asked himself , feeling in advance that the solution of his doubts , though as yet unknown to him , was already in his soul .
' Is it possible that those hundreds of millions of people are deprived of that highest blessing , without which life has no meaning ? ' he pondered , but he immediately corrected himself . ' But what am I asking about ? ' he said to himself .
' Do I not know that it is not the stars that are moving ? ' he asked himself , looking at a bright planet that had already shifted its position by the top branch of a birch tree . ' But I , watching the movement of the stars , can not picture to myself the rotation of the earth and I am right in saying that the stars move .
In an instant both boys were rolling and tumbling in the dirt , gripped together like cats ; and for the space of a minute they tugged and tore at each other 's hair and clothes , punched and scratched each other 's nose , and covered themselves with dust and glory .
The boy only struggled to free himself .
As he drew near , he slackened speed , took the middle of the street , leaned far over to starboard and rounded to ponderously and with laborious pomp and circumstance -- for he was personating the Big Missouri , and considered himself to be drawing nine feet of water .
He was boat and captain and engine-bells combined , so he had to imagine himself standing on his own hurricane-deck giving the orders and executing them :
TOM presented himself before Aunt Polly , who was sitting by an open window in a pleasant rearward apartment , which was bedroom , breakfast-room , dining-room , and library , combined .
She had thought that of course Tom had deserted long ago , and she wondered at seeing him place himself in her power again in this intrepid way .
He returned , now , and hung about the fence till nightfall , `` showing off , '' as before ; but the girl never exhibited herself again , though Tom comforted himself a little with the hope that she had been near some window , meantime , and been aware of his attentions .
He was so brimful of exultation that he could hardly hold himself when the old lady came back and stood above the wreck discharging lightnings of wrath from over her spectacles .
He pictured himself lying sick unto death and his aunt bending over him beseeching one little forgiving word , but he would turn his face to the wall , and die with that word unsaid .
And he pictured himself brought home from the river , dead , with his curls all wet , and his sore heart at rest .
How she would throw herself upon him , and how her tears would fall like rain , and her lips pray God to give her back her boy and she would never , never abuse him any more !
A log raft in the river invited him , and he seated himself on its outer edge and contemplated the dreary vastness of the stream , wishing , the while , that he could only be drowned , all at once and unconsciously , without undergoing the uncomfortable routine devised by nature .
He climbed the fence , threaded his stealthy way through the plants , till he stood under that window ; he looked up at it long , and with emotion ; then he laid him down on the ground under it , disposing himself upon his back , with his hands clasped upon his breast and holding his poor wilted flower .
The girl `` put him to rights '' after he had dressed himself ; she buttoned his neat roundabout up to his chin , turned his vast shirt collar down over his shoulders , brushed him off and crowned him with his speckled straw hat .
He once recited three thousand verses without stopping ; but the strain upon his mental faculties was too great , and he was little better than an idiot from that day forth -- a grievous misfortune for the school , for on great occasions , before company , the superintendent ( as Tom expressed it ) had always made this boy come out and `` spread himself . ''
And above it all the great man sat and beamed a majestic judicial smile upon all the house , and warmed himself in the sun of his own grandeur -- for he was `` showing off , '' too .
These despised themselves , as being the dupes of a wily fraud , a guileful snake in the grass .
The Sunday-school children distributed themselves about the house and occupied pews with their parents , so as to be under supervision .
After the hymn had been sung , the Rev. Mr. Sprague turned himself into a bulletin-board , and read off `` notices '' of meetings and societies and things till it seemed that the list would stretch out to the crack of doom -- a queer custom which is still kept up in America , even in cities , away here in this age of abundant newspapers . Often , the less there is to justify a traditional custom , the harder it is to get rid of it .
But he grew tired once more , after a while ; tried to amuse himself with a fly but found no relief ; followed an ant around , with his nose close to the floor , and quickly wearied of that ; yawned , sighed , forgot the beetle entirely , and sat down on it .
He took a rest and then swelled himself up and fetched a succession of admirable groans .
Sid yawned , stretched , then brought himself up on his elbow with a snort , and began to stare at Tom .
He gathered quite a following of lads interested in the exhibition ; and one that had cut his finger and had been a centre of fascination and homage up to this time , now found himself suddenly without an adherent , and shorn of his glory .
He hung his hat on a peg and flung himself into his seat with business-like alacrity .
He sat down upon the end of the pine bench and the girl hitched herself away from him with a toss of her head .
For a time the girl refused to notice ; but her human curiosity presently began to manifest itself by hardly perceptible signs .
Then the girl 's interest began to fasten itself upon the work and she forgot everything else .
It was a hard struggle with him to make new advances , now , but he nerved himself to it and entered .
So she sat down to cry again and upbraid herself ; and by this time the scholars began to gather again , and she had to hide her griefs and still her broken heart and take up the cross of a long , dreary , aching afternoon , with none among the strangers about her to exchange sorrows with .
For frivolity and jokes and spotted tights were an offense , when they intruded themselves upon a spirit that was exalted into the vague august realm of the romantic .
If you buried a marble with certain necessary incantations , and left it alone a fortnight , and then opened the place with the incantation he had just used , you would find that all the marbles you had ever lost had gathered themselves together there , meantime , no matter how widely they had been separated .
He thought he would satisfy himself on that point ; so he searched around till he found a small sandy spot with a little funnel-shaped depression in it .
He laid himself down and put his mouth close to this depression and called --
Now he went back to his treasure-house and carefully placed himself just as he had been standing when he tossed the marble away ; then he took another marble from his pocket and tossed it in the same way , saying : `` Brother , go find your brother ! ''
" I sha 'n't ! Why do n't you fall yourself ?
The boys dressed themselves , hid their accoutrements , and went off grieving that there were no outlaws any more , and wondering what modern civilization could claim to have done to compensate for their loss .
By and by , out of the stillness , little , scarcely perceptible noises began to emphasize themselves .
The ticking of the clock began to bring itself into notice .
They found the sharp new heap they were seeking , and ensconced themselves within the protection of three great elms that grew in a bunch within a few feet of the grave .
Did n't Gracie Miller fall in the kitchen fire and burn herself terrible the very next Saturday ? "
He undressed with excessive caution , and fell asleep congratulating himself that nobody knew of his escapade .
His aunt wept over him and asked him how he could go and break her old heart so ; and finally told him to go on , and ruin himself and bring her gray hairs with sorrow to the grave , for it was no use for her to try any more .
Then he betook himself to his seat , rested his elbows on his desk and his jaws in his hands , and stared at the wall with the stony stare of suffering that has reached the limit and can no further go .
And it was said that a belated citizen had come upon Potter washing himself in the `` branch '' about one or two o 'clock in the morning , and that Potter had at once sneaked off -- suspicious circumstances , especially the washing which was not a habit with Potter .
At this moment the crowd began to sway and struggle , and voices shouted , `` It 's him ! it 's him ! he 's coming himself ! ''
And when he had finished and still stood alive and whole , their wavering impulse to break their oath and save the poor betrayed prisoner 's life faded and vanished away , for plainly this miscreant had sold himself to Satan and it would be fatal to meddle with the property of such a power as that .
Injun Joe repeated his statement , just as calmly , a few minutes afterward on the inquest , under oath ; and the boys , seeing that the lightnings were still withheld , were confirmed in their belief that Joe had sold himself to the devil .
ONE of the reasons why Tom 's mind had drifted away from its secret troubles was , that it had found a new and weighty matter to interest itself about .
He began to find himself hanging around her father 's house , nights , and feeling very miserable .
He asked for it so often that he became a nuisance , and his aunt ended by telling him to help himself and quit bothering her .
He gathered himself up and sneaked off , crushed and crestfallen .
Then Tom tumbled his ham over the bluff and let himself down after it , tearing both skin and clothes to some extent in the effort .
The Terror of the Seas had brought a side of bacon , and had about worn himself out with getting it there .
They saw a fire smouldering upon a great raft a hundred yards above , and they went stealthily thither and helped themselves to a chunk .
When the last crisp slice of bacon was gone , and the last allowance of corn pone devoured , the boys stretched themselves out on the grass , filled with contentment .
They could have found a cooler place , but they would not deny themselves such a romantic feature as the roasting campfire .
Gradually the cool dim gray of the morning whitened , and as gradually sounds multiplied and life manifested itself .
They were too hungry to stop to fish , but they fared sumptuously upon cold ham , and then threw themselves down in the shade to talk .
However , he reached the shore finally , and drifted along till he found a low place and drew himself out .
He laid himself down under the thwarts and waited , panting .
He flew along unfrequented alleys , and shortly found himself at his aunt 's back fence .
Then with a mutual impulse the two bereaved women flung themselves into each other 's arms and had a good , consoling cry , and then parted .
When he had pulled a mile above the village , he started quartering across and bent himself stoutly to his work .
He sat down and took a long rest , torturing himself meanwhile to keep awake , and then started warily down the home-stretch .
It was broad daylight before he found himself fairly abreast the island bar .
Then Tom hid himself away in a shady nook to sleep till noon , and the other pirates got ready to fish and explore .
When they were well exhausted , they would run out and sprawl on the dry , hot sand , and lie there and cover themselves up with it , and by and by break for the water again and go through the original performance once more .
Tom found himself writing `` BECKY '' in the sand with his big toe ; he scratched it out , and was angry with himself for his weakness .
He erased it once more and then took himself out of temptation by driving the other boys together and joining them .
And he moved moodily away and began to dress himself .
Now they stretched themselves out on their elbows and began to puff , charily , and with slender confidence .
The boys huddled themselves together and sought the friendly companionship of the fire , though the dull dead heat of the breathless atmosphere was stifling .
A deep peal of thunder went rolling and tumbling down the heavens and lost itself in sullen rumblings in the distance .
They were eloquent in their distress ; but they presently discovered that the fire had eaten so far up under the great log it had been built against ( where it curved upward and separated itself from the ground ) , that a handbreadth or so of it had escaped wetting ; so they patiently wrought until , with shreds and bark gathered from the under sides of sheltered logs , they coaxed the fire to burn again .
In the afternoon Becky Thatcher found herself moping about the deserted schoolhouse yard , and feeling very melancholy .
As the service proceeded , the clergyman drew such pictures of the graces , the winning ways , and the rare promise of the lost lads that every soul there , thinking he recognized these pictures , felt a pang in remembering that he had persistently blinded himself to them always before , and had as persistently seen only faults and flaws in the poor boys .
The congregation became more and more moved , as the pathetic tale went on , till at last the whole company broke down and joined the weeping mourners in a chorus of anguished sobs , the preacher himself giving way to his feelings , and crying in the pulpit .
Aunt Polly , Mary , and the Harpers threw themselves upon their restored ones , smothered them with kisses and poured out thanksgivings , while poor Huck stood abashed and uncomfortable , not knowing exactly what to do or where to hide from so many unwelcoming eyes .
I 'm thankful to the good God and Father of us all I 've got you back , that 's long-suffering and merciful to them that believe on Him and keep His word , though goodness knows I 'm unworthy of it , but if only the worthy ones got His blessings and had His hand to help them over the rough places , there 's few enough would smile here or ever enter into His rest when the long night comes . Go ' long Sid , Mary , Tom -- take yourselves off -- you 've hendered me long enough . "
Becky 's lips trembled and the tears came to her eyes ; she hid these signs with a forced gayety and went on chattering , but the life had gone out of the picnic , now , and out of everything else ; she got away as soon as she could and hid herself and had what her sex call `` a good cry . ''
He began to hate himself for throwing away the chance Becky had offered for a reconciliation .
He called himself a fool , and all the hard names he could think of .
Becky , glancing in at a window behind him at the moment , saw the act , and moved on , without discovering herself .
Once more she ventured , and this time she fortified herself with the thought : `` It 's a good lie -- it 's a good lie -- I wo n't let it grieve me . ''
The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face : " I 'll thank you to keep yourself _ to _ yourself , Mr. Thomas Sawyer .
Every day he took a mysterious book out of his desk and absorbed himself in it at times when no classes were reciting .
She glanced around ; found herself alone , and the next instant she had the book in her hands .
She did not expect that Tom could get out of his trouble by denying that he spilt the ink on the book himself ; and she was right .
When the worst came to the worst , she had an impulse to get up and tell on Alfred Temple , but she made an effort and forced herself to keep still -- because , said she to herself , " he 'll tell about me tearing the picture sure .
By and by , Mr. Dobbins straightened himself up , yawned , then unlocked his desk , and reached for his book , but seemed undecided whether to take it out or leave it .
Mr. Dobbins fingered his book absently for a while , then took it out and settled himself in his chair to read !
The master 's wife would go on a visit to the country in a few days , and there would be nothing to interfere with the plan ; the master always prepared himself for great occasions by getting pretty well fuddled , and the signpainter 's boy said that when the dominie had reached the proper condition on Examination Evening he would `` manage the thing '' while he napped in his chair ; then he would have him awakened at the right time and hurried away to school .
A very little boy stood up and sheepishly recited , `` You 'd scarce expect one of my age to speak in public on the stage , '' etc . -- accompanying himself with the painfully exact and spasmodic gestures which a machine might have used -- supposing the machine to be a trifle out of order .
In fancy , the voluptuous votary of fashion sees herself amid the festive throng , ' the observed of all observers . '
He knew what the matter was , and set himself to right it .
Tom soon found himself tormented with a desire to drink and swear ; the desire grew to be so intense that nothing but the hope of a chance to display himself in his red sash kept him from withdrawing from the order .
By and by the tempest spent itself and died without accomplishing its object .
Moreover , he wanted to assure himself that Huck had remained discreet .
As the twilight drew on , they found themselves hanging about the neighborhood of the little isolated jail , perhaps with an undefined hope that something would happen that might clear away their difficulties .
The next day and the day after , he hung about the courtroom , drawn by an almost irresistible impulse to go in , but forcing himself to stay out .
The perplexity and dissatisfaction of the house expressed itself in murmurs and provoked a reproof from the bench .
Many men were moved , and many women 's compassion testified itself in tears .
Every eye fastened itself with wondering interest upon Tom as he rose and took his place upon the stand .
Tom began -- hesitatingly at first , but as he warmed to his subject his words flowed more and more easily ; in a little while every sound ceased but his own voice ; every eye fixed itself upon him ; with parted lips and bated breath the audience hung upon his words , taking no note of time , rapt in the ghastly fascinations of the tale .
They arrived hot and panting , and threw themselves down in the shade of a neighboring elm to rest and have a smoke .
The boys stretched themselves upon the floor with their eyes to knotholes in the planking , and lay waiting , in a misery of fear . " They 've stopped
He gathered himself up cursing , and his comrade said : " Now what 's the use of all that ?
They were too much absorbed in hating themselves -- hating the ill luck that made them take the spade and the pick there .
But the incidents of his adventure grew sensibly sharper and clearer under the attrition of thinking them over , and so he presently found himself leaning to the impression that the thing might not have been a dream , after all .
The tavern-keeper 's young son said it was kept locked all the time , and he never saw anybody go into it or come out of it except at night ; he did not know any particular reason for this state of things ; had had some little curiosity , but it was rather feeble ; had made the most of the mystery by entertaining himself with the idea that that room was `` ha 'nted '' ; had noticed that there was a light in there the night before .
In his uneasiness Huck found himself drawing closer and closer to the alley ; fearing all sorts of dreadful things , and momentarily expecting some catastrophe to happen that would take away his breath .
There was not much to take away , for he seemed only able to inhale it by thimblefuls , and his heart would soon wear itself out , the way it was beating .
And mind and behave yourself and do n't be any trouble . "
The sure fun of the evening outweighed the uncertain treasure ; and , boy-like , he determined to yield to the stronger inclination and not allow himself to think of the box of money another time that day .
Ten o 'clock came , and the noise of vehicles ceased , scattered lights began to wink out , all straggling foot-passengers disappeared , the village betook itself to its slumbers and left the small watcher alone with the silence and the ghosts .
Now he turned in his tracks , between the walls of sumach bushes -- turned himself as carefully as if he were a ship -- and then stepped quickly but cautiously along .
Huck was given a seat and the old man and his brace of tall sons speedily dressed themselves .
" Now , my boy , I hope you 're good and hungry , because breakfast will be ready as soon as the sun 's up , and we 'll have a piping hot one , too -- make yourself easy about that !
Huck was in a close place -- the inquiring eye was upon him -- he would have given anything for material for a plausible answer -- nothing suggested itself -- the inquiring eye was boring deeper and deeper -- a senseless reply offered -- there was no time to weigh it , so at a venture he uttered it -- feebly :
Under the roof vast knots of bats had packed themselves together , thousands in a bunch ; the lights disturbed the creatures and they came flocking down by hundreds , squeaking and darting furiously at the candles .
He fell to blaming and abusing himself for getting her into this miserable situation ; this had a better effect .
He was vastly gratified the next moment , to see the `` Spaniard '' take to his heels and get himself out of sight .
Tin pans and horns were added to the din , the population massed itself and moved toward the river , met the children coming in an open carriage drawn by shouting citizens , thronged around it , joined its homeward march , and swept magnificently up the main street roaring huzzah after huzzah !
When the cave door was unlocked , a sorrowful sight presented itself in the dim twilight of the place .
The great foundation-beam of the door had been chipped and hacked through , with tedious labor ; useless labor , too , it was , for the native rock formed a sill outside it , and upon that stubborn material the knife had wrought no effect ; the only damage done was to the knife itself .
This question was not entirely answered in Huck 's slow mind before he found himself pushed , along with Tom , into Mrs. Douglas ' drawing-room .
She took them to a bedchamber and said : " Now wash and dress yourselves .
At the proper time Mr. Jones made his little speech , in which he thanked the widow for the honor she was doing himself and his sons , but said that there was another person whose modesty -- And so forth and so on .
*It* *contained* *a* *bookcase* *:* *I* *soon* *possessed* *myself* *of* *a* *volume* *,* *taking* *care* *that* *it* *should* *be* *one* *stored* *with* *pictures* *.*
*The* *words* *in* *these* *introductory* *pages* *connected* *themselves* *with* *the* *succeeding* *vignettes* *,* *and* *gave* *significance* *to* *the* *rock* *standing* *up* *alone* *in* *a* *sea* *of* *billow* *and* *spray* *;* *to* *the* *broken* *boat* *stranded* *on* *a* *desolate* *coast* *;* *to* *the* *cold* *and* *ghastly* *moon* *glancing* *through* *bars* *of* *cloud* *at* *a* *wreck* *just* *sinking* *.*
*``* *I* *want* *you* *to* *come* *here* *;* *''* *and* *seating* *himself* *in* *an* *arm-chair* *,* *he* *intimated* *by* *a* *gesture* *that* *I* *was* *to* *approach* *and* *stand* *before* *him* *.*
*He* *gorged* *himself* *habitually* *at* *table* *,* *which* *made* *him* *bilious* *,* *and* *gave* *him* *a* *dim* *and* *bleared* *eye* *and* *flabby* *cheeks* *.*
*In* *guarantee* *whereof* *,* *I* *attached* *myself* *to* *my* *seat* *by* *my* *hands* *.*
*Miss* *Abbot* *joined* *in* *--* *"* *And* *you* *ought* *not* *to* *think* *yourself* *on* *an* *equality* *with* *the* *Misses* *Reed* *and* *Master* *Reed* *,* *because* *Missis* *kindly* *allows* *you* *to* *be* *brought* *up* *with* *them* *.*
*They* *will* *have* *a* *great* *deal* *of* *money* *,* *and* *you* *will* *have* *none* *:* *it* *is* *your* *place* *to* *be* *humble* *,* *and* *to* *try* *to* *make* *yourself* *agreeable* *to* *them* *.* *"*
*``* *Unjust* *!* *--* *unjust* *!* *''* *said* *my* *reason* *,* *forced* *by* *the* *agonising* *stimulus* *into* *precocious* *though* *transitory* *power* *:* *and* *Resolve* *,* *equally* *wrought* *up* *,* *instigated* *some* *strange* *expedient* *to* *achieve* *escape* *from* *insupportable* *oppression* *--* *as* *running* *away* *,* *or* *,* *if* *that* *could* *not* *be* *effected* *,* *never* *eating* *or* *drinking* *more* *,* *and* *letting* *myself* *die* *.*
*All* *said* *I* *was* *wicked* *,* *and* *perhaps* *I* *might* *be* *so* *;* *what* *thought* *had* *I* *been* *but* *just* *conceiving* *of* *starving* *myself* *to* *death* *?*
*It* *must* *have* *been* *most* *irksome* *to* *find* *herself* *bound* *by* *a* *hard-wrung* *pledge* *to* *stand* *in* *the* *stead* *of* *a* *parent* *to* *a* *strange* *child* *she* *could* *not* *love* *,* *and* *to* *see* *an* *uncongenial* *alien* *permanently* *intruded* *on* *her* *own* *family* *group* *.*
*Was* *it* *,* *I* *asked* *myself* *,* *a* *ray* *from* *the* *moon* *penetrating* *some* *aperture* *in* *the* *blind* *?*
*``* *I* *was* *knocked* *down* *,* *''* *was* *the* *blunt* *explanation* *,* *jerked* *out* *of* *me* *by* *another* *pang* *of* *mortified* *pride* *;* *``* *but* *that* *did* *not* *make* *me* *ill* *,* *''* *I* *added* *;* *while* *Mr.* *Lloyd* *helped* *himself* *to* *a* *pinch* *of* *snuff* *.*
*But* *Bessie* *,* *as* *soon* *as* *she* *had* *dressed* *her* *young* *ladies* *,* *used* *to* *take* *herself* *off* *to* *the* *lively* *regions* *of* *the* *kitchen* *and* *housekeeper* *'s* *room* *,* *generally* *bearing* *the* *candle* *along* *with* *her* *.*
*I* *then* *sat* *with* *my* *doll* *on* *my* *knee* *till* *the* *fire* *got* *low* *,* *glancing* *round* *occasionally* *to* *make* *sure* *that* *nothing* *worse* *than* *myself* *haunted* *the* *shadowy* *room* *;* *and* *when* *the* *embers* *sank* *to* *a* *dull* *red* *,* *I* *undressed* *hastily* *,* *tugging* *at* *knots* *and* *strings* *as* *I* *best* *might* *,* *and* *sought* *shelter* *from* *cold* *and* *darkness* *in* *my* *crib* *.*
*Not* *being* *in* *a* *condition* *to* *remove* *his* *doubt* *,* *I* *only* *cast* *my* *eyes* *down* *on* *the* *two* *large* *feet* *planted* *on* *the* *rug* *,* *and* *sighed* *,* *wishing* *myself* *far* *enough* *away* *.*
*I* *was* *about* *to* *propound* *a* *question* *,* *touching* *the* *manner* *in* *which* *that* *operation* *of* *changing* *my* *heart* *was* *to* *be* *performed* *,* *when* *Mrs.* *Reed* *interposed* *,* *telling* *me* *to* *sit* *down* *;* *she* *then* *proceeded* *to* *carry* *on* *the* *conversation* *herself* *.*
*Now* *,* *uttered* *before* *a* *stranger* *,* *the* *accusation* *cut* *me* *to* *the* *heart* *;* *I* *dimly* *perceived* *that* *she* *was* *already* *obliterating* *hope* *from* *the* *new* *phase* *of* *existence* *which* *she* *destined* *me* *to* *enter* *;* *I* *felt* *,* *though* *I* *could* *not* *have* *expressed* *the* *feeling* *,* *that* *she* *was* *sowing* *aversion* *and* *unkindness* *along* *my* *future* *path* *;* *I* *saw* *myself* *transformed* *under* *Mr.* *Brocklehurst* *'s* *eye* *into* *an* *artful* *,* *noxious* *child* *,* *and* *what* *could* *I* *do* *to* *remedy* *the* *injury* *?*
*``* *Madam* *,* *you* *may* *:* *she* *shall* *be* *placed* *in* *that* *nursery* *of* *chosen* *plants* *,* *and* *I* *trust* *she* *will* *show* *herself* *grateful* *for* *the* *inestimable* *privilege* *of* *her* *election* *.* *''*
*Not* *without* *cause* *was* *this* *sentiment* *:* *Mrs.* *Reed* *looked* *frightened* *;* *her* *work* *had* *slipped* *from* *her* *knee* *;* *she* *was* *lifting* *up* *her* *hands* *,* *rocking* *herself* *to* *and* *fro* *,* *and* *even* *twisting* *her* *face* *as* *if* *she* *would* *cry* *.*
*Few* *children* *can* *eat* *when* *excited* *with* *the* *thoughts* *of* *a* *journey* *;* *nor* *could* *I.* *Bessie* *,* *having* *pressed* *me* *in* *vain* *to* *take* *a* *few* *spoonfuls* *of* *the* *boiled* *milk* *and* *bread* *she* *had* *prepared* *for* *me* *,* *wrapped* *up* *some* *biscuits* *in* *a* *paper* *and* *put* *them* *into* *my* *bag* *;* *then* *she* *helped* *me* *on* *with* *my* *pelisse* *and* *bonnet* *,* *and* *wrapping* *herself* *in* *a* *shawl* *,* *she* *and* *I* *left* *the* *nursery* *.*
*``* *Silence* *!* *''* *ejaculated* *a* *voice* *;* *not* *that* *of* *Miss* *Miller* *,* *but* *one* *of* *the* *upper* *teachers* *,* *a* *little* *and* *dark* *personage* *,* *smartly* *dressed* *,* *but* *of* *somewhat* *morose* *aspect* *,* *who* *installed* *herself* *at* *the* *top* *of* *one* *table* *,* *while* *a* *more* *buxom* *lady* *presided* *at* *the* *other* *.*
*I* *leant* *against* *a* *pillar* *of* *the* *verandah* *,* *drew* *my* *grey* *mantle* *close* *about* *me* *,* *and* *,* *trying* *to* *forget* *the* *cold* *which* *nipped* *me* *without* *,* *and* *the* *unsatisfied* *hunger* *which* *gnawed* *me* *within* *,* *delivered* *myself* *up* *to* *the* *employment* *of* *watching* *and* *thinking* *.*
*At* *that* *hour* *most* *of* *the* *others* *were* *sewing* *likewise* *;* *but* *one* *class* *still* *stood* *round* *Miss* *Scatcherd* *'s* *chair* *reading* *,* *and* *as* *all* *was* *quiet* *,* *the* *subject* *of* *their* *lessons* *could* *be* *heard* *,* *together* *with* *the* *manner* *in* *which* *each* *girl* *acquitted* *herself* *,* *and* *the* *animadversions* *or* *commendations* *of* *Miss* *Scatcherd* *on* *the* *performance* *.*
*My* *first* *quarter* *at* *Lowood* *seemed* *an* *age* *;* *and* *not* *the* *golden* *age* *either* *;* *it* *comprised* *an* *irksome* *struggle* *with* *difficulties* *in* *habituating* *myself* *to* *new* *rules* *and* *unwonted* *tasks* *.*
*A* *long* *stride* *measured* *the* *schoolroom* *,* *and* *presently* *beside* *Miss* *Temple* *,* *who* *herself* *had* *risen* *,* *stood* *the* *same* *black* *column* *which* *had* *frowned* *on* *me* *so* *ominously* *from* *the* *hearthrug* *of* *Gateshead* *.*
*A* *brief* *address* *on* *those* *occasions* *would* *not* *be* *mistimed* *,* *wherein* *a* *judicious* *instructor* *would* *take* *the* *opportunity* *of* *referring* *to* *the* *sufferings* *of* *the* *primitive* *Christians* *;* *to* *the* *torments* *of* *martyrs* *;* *to* *the* *exhortations* *of* *our* *blessed* *Lord* *Himself* *,* *calling* *upon* *His* *disciples* *to* *take* *up* *their* *cross* *and* *follow* *Him* *;* *to* *His* *warnings* *that* *man* *shall* *not* *live* *by* *bread* *alone* *,* *but* *by* *every* *word* *that* *proceedeth* *out* *of* *the* *mouth* *of* *God* *;* *to* *His* *divine* *consolations* *,* *``* *If* *ye* *suffer* *hunger* *or* *thirst* *for* *My* *sake* *,* *happy* *are* *ye* *.* *''*
*``* *Madam* *,* *''* *he* *pursued* *,* *``* *I* *have* *a* *Master* *to* *serve* *whose* *kingdom* *is* *not* *of* *this* *world* *:* *my* *mission* *is* *to* *mortify* *in* *these* *girls* *the* *lusts* *of* *the* *flesh* *;* *to* *teach* *them* *to* *clothe* *themselves* *with* *shame-facedness* *and* *sobriety* *,* *not* *with* *braided* *hair* *and* *costly* *apparel* *;* *and* *each* *of* *the* *young* *persons* *before* *us* *has* *a* *string* *of* *hair* *twisted* *in* *plaits* *which* *vanity* *itself* *might* *have* *woven* *;* *these* *,* *I* *repeat* *,* *must* *be* *cut* *off* *;* *think* *of* *the* *time* *wasted* *,* *of* *--* *''* *Mr.* *Brocklehurst* *was* *here* *interrupted* *:* *three* *other* *visitors* *,* *ladies* *,* *now* *entered* *the* *room* *.*
*Now* *came* *a* *pause* *of* *ten* *minutes* *,* *during* *which* *I* *,* *by* *this* *time* *in* *perfect* *possession* *of* *my* *wits* *,* *observed* *all* *the* *female* *Brocklehursts* *produce* *their* *pocket-handkerchiefs* *and* *apply* *them* *to* *their* *optics* *,* *while* *the* *elderly* *lady* *swayed* *herself* *to* *and* *fro* *,* *and* *the* *two* *younger* *ones* *whispered* *,* *``* *How* *shocking* *!* *''*
*Now* *I* *wept* *:* *Helen* *Burns* *was* *not* *here* *;* *nothing* *sustained* *me* *;* *left* *to* *myself* *I* *abandoned* *myself* *,* *and* *my* *tears* *watered* *the* *boards* *.*
*"* *Mr.* *Brocklehurst* *is* *not* *a* *god* *:* *nor* *is* *he* *even* *a* *great* *and* *admired* *man* *:* *he* *is* *little* *liked* *here* *;* *he* *never* *took* *steps* *to* *make* *himself* *liked* *.*
*Miss* *Temple* *told* *Helen* *Burns* *to* *be* *seated* *in* *a* *low* *arm-chair* *on* *one* *side* *of* *the* *hearth* *,* *and* *herself* *taking* *another* *,* *she* *called* *me* *to* *her* *side* *.*
*"* *We* *shall* *think* *you* *what* *you* *prove* *yourself* *to* *be* *,* *my* *child* *.*
*You* *have* *been* *charged* *with* *falsehood* *;* *defend* *yourself* *to* *me* *as* *well* *as* *you* *can* *.*
*She* *was* *pensive* *a* *few* *minutes* *,* *then* *rousing* *herself* *,* *she* *said* *cheerfully* *--*
*That* *beck* *itself* *was* *then* *a* *torrent* *,* *turbid* *and* *curbless* *:* *it* *tore* *asunder* *the* *wood* *,* *and* *sent* *a* *raving* *sound* *through* *the* *air* *,* *often* *thickened* *with* *wild* *rain* *or* *whirling* *sleet* *;* *and* *for* *the* *forest* *on* *its* *banks* *,* *_* *that* *_* *showed* *only* *ranks* *of* *skeletons* *.*
*One* *evening* *,* *in* *the* *beginning* *of* *June* *,* *I* *had* *stayed* *out* *very* *late* *with* *Mary* *Ann* *in* *the* *wood* *;* *we* *had* *,* *as* *usual* *,* *separated* *ourselves* *from* *the* *others* *,* *and* *had* *wandered* *far* *;* *so* *far* *that* *we* *lost* *our* *way* *,* *and* *had* *to* *ask* *it* *at* *a* *lonely* *cottage* *,* *where* *a* *man* *and* *woman* *lived* *,* *who* *looked* *after* *a* *herd* *of* *half-wild* *swine* *that* *fed* *on* *the* *mast* *in* *the* *wood* *.*
*She* *stirred* *herself* *,* *put* *back* *the* *curtain* *,* *and* *I* *saw* *her* *face* *,* *pale* *,* *wasted* *,* *but* *quite* *composed* *:* *she* *looked* *so* *little* *changed* *that* *my* *fear* *was* *instantly* *dissipated* *.*
*``* *Jane* *,* *your* *little* *feet* *are* *bare* *;* *lie* *down* *and* *cover* *yourself* *with* *my* *quilt* *.* *''*
*I* *had* *the* *means* *of* *an* *excellent* *education* *placed* *within* *my* *reach* *;* *a* *fondness* *for* *some* *of* *my* *studies* *,* *and* *a* *desire* *to* *excel* *in* *all* *,* *together* *with* *a* *great* *delight* *in* *pleasing* *my* *teachers* *,* *especially* *such* *as* *I* *loved* *,* *urged* *me* *on* *:* *I* *availed* *myself* *fully* *of* *the* *advantages* *offered* *me* *.*
*I* *imagined* *myself* *only* *to* *be* *regretting* *my* *loss* *,* *and* *thinking* *how* *to* *repair* *it* *;* *but* *when* *my* *reflections* *were* *concluded* *,* *and* *I* *looked* *up* *and* *found* *that* *the* *afternoon* *was* *gone* *,* *and* *evening* *far* *advanced* *,* *another* *discovery* *dawned* *on* *me* *,* *namely* *,* *that* *in* *the* *interval* *I* *had* *undergone* *a* *transforming* *process* *;* *that* *my* *mind* *had* *put* *off* *all* *it* *had* *borrowed* *of* *Miss* *Temple* *--* *or* *rather* *that* *she* *had* *taken* *with* *her* *the* *serene* *atmosphere* *I* *had* *been* *breathing* *in* *her* *vicinity* *--* *and* *that* *now* *I* *was* *left* *in* *my* *natural* *element* *,* *and* *beginning* *to* *feel* *the* *stirring* *of* *old* *emotions* *.*
*The* *succeeding* *week* *seemed* *long* *:* *it* *came* *to* *an* *end* *at* *last* *,* *however* *,* *like* *all* *sublunary* *things* *,* *and* *once* *more* *,* *towards* *the* *close* *of* *a* *pleasant* *autumn* *day* *,* *I* *found* *myself* *afoot* *on* *the* *road* *to* *Lowton* *.*
*This* *note* *went* *the* *round* *of* *the* *committee* *,* *and* *at* *last* *,* *after* *what* *appeared* *to* *me* *most* *tedious* *delay* *,* *formal* *leave* *was* *given* *me* *to* *better* *my* *condition* *if* *I* *could* *;* *and* *an* *assurance* *added* *,* *that* *as* *I* *had* *always* *conducted* *myself* *well* *,* *both* *as* *teacher* *and* *pupil* *,* *at* *Lowood* *,* *a* *testimonial* *of* *character* *and* *capacity* *,* *signed* *by* *the* *inspectors* *of* *that* *institution* *,* *should* *forthwith* *be* *furnished* *me* *.*
*I* *now* *busied* *myself* *in* *preparations* *:* *the* *fortnight* *passed* *rapidly* *.*
*It* *is* *a* *very* *strange* *sensation* *to* *inexperienced* *youth* *to* *feel* *itself* *quite* *alone* *in* *the* *world* *,* *cut* *adrift* *from* *every* *connection* *,* *uncertain* *whether* *the* *port* *to* *which* *it* *is* *bound* *can* *be* *reached* *,* *and* *prevented* *by* *many* *impediments* *from* *returning* *to* *that* *it* *has* *quitted* *.*
*I* *bethought* *myself* *to* *ring* *the* *bell* *.*
*``* *Will* *you* *walk* *this* *way* *,* *ma* *'am* *?* *''* *said* *the* *girl* *;* *and* *I* *followed* *her* *across* *a* *square* *hall* *with* *high* *doors* *all* *round* *:* *she* *ushered* *me* *into* *a* *room* *whose* *double* *illumination* *of* *fire* *and* *candle* *at* *first* *dazzled* *me* *,* *contrasting* *as* *it* *did* *with* *the* *darkness* *to* *which* *my* *eyes* *had* *been* *for* *two* *hours* *inured* *;* *when* *I* *could* *see* *,* *however* *,* *a* *cosy* *and* *agreeable* *picture* *presented* *itself* *to* *my* *view* *.*
*She* *conducted* *me* *to* *her* *own* *chair* *,* *and* *then* *began* *to* *remove* *my* *shawl* *and* *untie* *my* *bonnet-strings* *;* *I* *begged* *she* *would* *not* *give* *herself* *so* *much* *trouble* *.*
*She* *returned* *;* *with* *her* *own* *hands* *cleared* *her* *knitting* *apparatus* *and* *a* *book* *or* *two* *from* *the* *table* *,* *to* *make* *room* *for* *the* *tray* *which* *Leah* *now* *brought* *,* *and* *then* *herself* *handed* *me* *the* *refreshments* *.*
*I* *rose* *;* *I* *dressed* *myself* *with* *care* *:* *obliged* *to* *be* *plain* *--* *for* *I* *had* *no* *article* *of* *attire* *that* *was* *not* *made* *with* *extreme* *simplicity* *--* *I* *was* *still* *by* *nature* *solicitous* *to* *be* *neat* *.*
*The* *present* *Mr.* *Rochester* *'s* *mother* *was* *a* *Fairfax* *,* *and* *second* *cousin* *to* *my* *husband* *:* *but* *I* *never* *presume* *on* *the* *connection* *--* *in* *fact* *,* *it* *is* *nothing* *to* *me* *;* *I* *consider* *myself* *quite* *in* *the* *light* *of* *an* *ordinary* *housekeeper* *:* *my* *employer* *is* *always* *civil* *,* *and* *I* *expect* *nothing* *more* *.* *"*
*Fortunately* *I* *had* *had* *the* *advantage* *of* *being* *taught* *French* *by* *a* *French* *lady* *;* *and* *as* *I* *had* *always* *made* *a* *point* *of* *conversing* *with* *Madame* *Pierrot* *as* *often* *as* *I* *could* *,* *and* *had* *besides* *,* *during* *the* *last* *seven* *years* *,* *learnt* *a* *portion* *of* *French* *by* *heart* *daily* *--* *applying* *myself* *to* *take* *pains* *with* *my* *accent* *,* *and* *imitating* *as* *closely* *as* *possible* *the* *pronunciation* *of* *my* *teacher* *,* *I* *had* *acquired* *a* *certain* *degree* *of* *readiness* *and* *correctness* *in* *the* *language* *,* *and* *was* *not* *likely* *to* *be* *much* *at* *a* *loss* *with* *Mademoiselle* *Adela* *.*
*Descending* *from* *her* *chair* *,* *she* *came* *and* *placed* *herself* *on* *my* *knee* *;* *then* *,* *folding* *her* *little* *hands* *demurely* *before* *her* *,* *shaking* *back* *her* *curls* *and* *lifting* *her* *eyes* *to* *the* *ceiling* *,* *she* *commenced* *singing* *a* *song* *from* *some* *opera* *.*
*I* *then* *proposed* *to* *occupy* *myself* *till* *dinner-time* *in* *drawing* *some* *little* *sketches* *for* *her* *use* *.*
*Women* *are* *supposed* *to* *be* *very* *calm* *generally* *:* *but* *women* *feel* *just* *as* *men* *feel* *;* *they* *need* *exercise* *for* *their* *faculties* *,* *and* *a* *field* *for* *their* *efforts* *,* *as* *much* *as* *their* *brothers* *do* *;* *they* *suffer* *from* *too* *rigid* *a* *restraint* *,* *too* *absolute* *a* *stagnation* *,* *precisely* *as* *men* *would* *suffer* *;* *and* *it* *is* *narrow-minded* *in* *their* *more* *privileged* *fellow-creatures* *to* *say* *that* *they* *ought* *to* *confine* *themselves* *to* *making* *puddings* *and* *knitting* *stockings* *,* *to* *playing* *on* *the* *piano* *and* *embroidering* *bags* *.*
*I* *obeyed* *him* *,* *and* *walked* *down* *to* *the* *traveller* *,* *by* *this* *time* *struggling* *himself* *free* *of* *his* *steed* *.*
*We* *obeyed* *,* *as* *in* *duty* *bound* *;* *Adele* *wanted* *to* *take* *a* *seat* *on* *my* *knee* *,* *but* *she* *was* *ordered* *to* *amuse* *herself* *with* *Pilot* *.*
*``* *Do* *n't* *trouble* *yourself* *to* *give* *her* *a* *character* *,* *''* *returned* *Mr.* *Rochester* *:* *"* *eulogiums* *will* *not* *bias* *me* *;* *I* *shall* *judge* *for* *myself* *.*
*``* *Yes* *,* *there* *is* *your* *'* *boite* *'* *at* *last* *:* *take* *it* *into* *a* *corner* *,* *you* *genuine* *daughter* *of* *Paris* *,* *and* *amuse* *yourself* *with* *disembowelling* *it* *,* *''* *said* *the* *deep* *and* *rather* *sarcastic* *voice* *of* *Mr.* *Rochester* *,* *proceeding* *from* *the* *depths* *of* *an* *immense* *easy-chair* *at* *the* *fireside* *.*
*Accordingly* *I* *sat* *and* *said* *nothing* *:* *``* *If* *he* *expects* *me* *to* *talk* *for* *the* *mere* *sake* *of* *talking* *and* *showing* *off* *,* *he* *will* *find* *he* *has* *addressed* *himself* *to* *the* *wrong* *person* *,* *''* *I* *thought* *.*
*The* *fact* *is* *,* *once* *for* *all* *,* *I* *do* *n't* *wish* *to* *treat* *you* *like* *an* *inferior* *:* *that* *is* *``* *(* *correcting* *himself* *)* *,* *''* *I* *claim* *only* *such* *superiority* *as* *must* *result* *from* *twenty* *years* *'* *difference* *in* *age* *and* *a* *century* *'s* *advance* *in* *experience* *.*
*I* *smiled* *:* *I* *thought* *to* *myself* *Mr.* *Rochester* *_* *is* *_* *peculiar* *--* *he* *seems* *to* *forget* *that* *he* *pays* *me* *30* *pounds* *per* *annum* *for* *receiving* *his* *orders* *.*
*``* *I* *was* *thinking* *,* *sir* *,* *that* *very* *few* *masters* *would* *trouble* *themselves* *to* *inquire* *whether* *or* *not* *their* *paid* *subordinates* *were* *piqued* *and* *hurt* *by* *their* *orders* *.* *''*
*Do* *you* *wonder* *that* *I* *avow* *this* *to* *you* *?* *Know* *,* *that* *in* *the* *course* *of* *your* *future* *life* *you* *will* *often* *find* *yourself* *elected* *the* *involuntary* *confidant* *of* *your* *acquaintances* *'* *secrets* *:* *people* *will* *instinctively* *find* *out* *,* *as* *I* *have* *done* *,* *that* *it* *is* *not* *your* *forte* *to* *tell* *of* *yourself* *,* *but* *to* *listen* *while* *others* *talk* *of* *themselves* *;* *they* *will* *feel* *,* *too* *,* *that* *you* *listen* *with* *no* *malevolent* *scorn* *of* *their* *indiscretion* *,* *but* *with* *a* *kind* *of* *innate* *sympathy* *;* *not* *the* *less* *comforting* *and* *encouraging* *because* *it* *is* *very* *unobtrusive* *in* *its* *manifestations* *.* *"*
*Now* *,* *when* *any* *vicious* *simpleton* *excites* *my* *disgust* *by* *his* *paltry* *ribaldry* *,* *I* *can* *not* *flatter* *myself* *that* *I* *am* *better* *than* *he* *:* *I* *am* *forced* *to* *confess* *that* *he* *and* *I* *are* *on* *a* *level* *.*
*"* *Not* *at* *all* *--* *it* *bears* *the* *most* *gracious* *message* *in* *the* *world* *:* *for* *the* *rest* *,* *you* *are* *not* *my* *conscience-keeper* *,* *so* *do* *n't* *make* *yourself* *uneasy* *.*
*You* *seem* *to* *doubt* *me* *;* *I* *do* *n't* *doubt* *myself* *:* *I* *know* *what* *my* *aim* *is* *,* *what* *my* *motives* *are* *;* *and* *at* *this* *moment* *I* *pass* *a* *law* *,* *unalterable* *as* *that* *of* *the* *Medes* *and* *Persians* *,* *that* *both* *are* *right* *.* *"*
*Do* *n't* *trouble* *yourself* *to* *answer* *--* *I* *see* *you* *laugh* *rarely* *;* *but* *you* *can* *laugh* *very* *merrily* *:* *believe* *me* *,* *you* *are* *not* *naturally* *austere* *,* *any* *more* *than* *I* *am* *naturally* *vicious* *.*
*He* *thought* *himself* *her* *idol* *,* *ugly* *as* *he* *was* *:* *he* *believed* *,* *as* *he* *said* *,* *that* *she* *preferred* *his* *``* *_* *taille* *d* *'athlete* *_* *''* *to* *the* *elegance* *of* *the* *Apollo* *Belvidere* *.*
*I* *was* *just* *beginning* *to* *stifle* *with* *the* *fumes* *of* *conservatory* *flowers* *and* *sprinkled* *essences* *,* *when* *I* *bethought* *myself* *to* *open* *the* *window* *and* *step* *out* *on* *to* *the* *balcony* *.*
*I* *asked* *myself* *.* *"* *What* *alienates* *him* *from* *the* *house* *?*
*Though* *it* *was* *now* *dark* *,* *I* *knew* *he* *was* *awake* *;* *because* *I* *heard* *him* *fulminating* *strange* *anathemas* *at* *finding* *himself* *lying* *in* *a* *pool* *of* *water* *.*
*Meantime* *,* *I* *am* *glad* *that* *you* *are* *the* *only* *person* *,* *besides* *myself* *,* *acquainted* *with* *the* *precise* *details* *of* *to-night* *'s* *incident* *.*
*I* *bethought* *myself* *of* *an* *expedient* *.* *``* *I* *think* *I* *hear* *Mrs.* *Fairfax* *move* *,* *sir* *,* *''* *said* *I.*
*I* *compared* *myself* *with* *her* *,* *and* *found* *we* *were* *different* *.*
*That* *a* *greater* *fool* *than* *Jane* *Eyre* *had* *never* *breathed* *the* *breath* *of* *life* *;* *that* *a* *more* *fantastic* *idiot* *had* *never* *surfeited* *herself* *on* *sweet* *lies* *,* *and* *swallowed* *poison* *as* *if* *it* *were* *nectar* *.*
*Ere* *long* *,* *I* *had* *reason* *to* *congratulate* *myself* *on* *the* *course* *of* *wholesome* *discipline* *to* *which* *I* *had* *thus* *forced* *my* *feelings* *to* *submit* *.*
*I* *was* *actually* *permitting* *myself* *to* *experience* *a* *sickening* *sense* *of* *disappointment* *;* *but* *rallying* *my* *wits* *,* *and* *recollecting* *my* *principles* *,* *I* *at* *once* *called* *my* *sensations* *to* *order* *;* *and* *it* *was* *wonderful* *how* *I* *got* *over* *the* *temporary* *blunder* *--* *how* *I* *cleared* *up* *the* *mistake* *of* *supposing* *Mr.* *Rochester* *'s* *movements* *a* *matter* *in* *which* *I* *had* *any* *cause* *to* *take* *a* *vital* *interest* *.*
*Not* *that* *I* *humbled* *myself* *by* *a* *slavish* *notion* *of* *inferiority* *:* *on* *the* *contrary* *,* *I* *just* *said* *--* *"* *You* *have* *nothing* *to* *do* *with* *the* *master* *of* *Thornfield* *,* *further* *than* *to* *receive* *the* *salary* *he* *gives* *you* *for* *teaching* *his* *protegee* *,* *and* *to* *be* *grateful* *for* *such* *respectful* *and* *kind* *treatment* *as* *,* *if* *you* *do* *your* *duty* *,* *you* *have* *a* *right* *to* *expect* *at* *his* *hands* *.*
*Ere* *I* *permitted* *myself* *to* *request* *an* *explanation* *,* *I* *tied* *the* *string* *of* *Adele* *'s* *pinafore* *,* *which* *happened* *to* *be* *loose* *:* *having* *helped* *her* *also* *to* *another* *bun* *and* *refilled* *her* *mug* *with* *milk* *,* *I* *said* *,* *nonchalantly* *--*
*Some* *of* *them* *threw* *themselves* *in* *half-reclining* *positions* *on* *the* *sofas* *and* *ottomans* *:* *some* *bent* *over* *the* *tables* *and* *examined* *the* *flowers* *and* *books* *:* *the* *rest* *gathered* *in* *a* *group* *round* *the* *fire* *:* *all* *talked* *in* *a* *low* *but* *clear* *tone* *which* *seemed* *habitual* *to* *them* *.*
*Did* *I* *forbid* *myself* *to* *think* *of* *him* *in* *any* *other* *light* *than* *as* *a* *paymaster* *?*
*Miss* *Ingram* *,* *who* *had* *now* *seated* *herself* *with* *proud* *grace* *at* *the* *piano* *,* *spreading* *out* *her* *snowy* *robes* *in* *queenly* *amplitude* *,* *commenced* *a* *brilliant* *prelude* *;* *talking* *meantime* *.*
*Miss* *Ingram* *placed* *herself* *at* *her* *leader* *'s* *right* *hand* *;* *the* *other* *diviners* *filled* *the* *chairs* *on* *each* *side* *of* *him* *and* *her* *.*
*What* *charade* *Colonel* *Dent* *and* *his* *party* *played* *,* *what* *word* *they* *chose* *,* *how* *they* *acquitted* *themselves* *,* *I* *no* *longer* *remember* *;* *but* *I* *still* *see* *the* *consultation* *which* *followed* *each* *scene* *:* *I* *see* *Mr.* *Rochester* *turn* *to* *Miss* *Ingram* *,* *and* *Miss* *Ingram* *to* *him* *;* *I* *see* *her* *incline* *her* *head* *towards* *him* *,* *till* *the* *jetty* *curls* *almost* *touch* *his* *shoulder* *and* *wave* *against* *his* *cheek* *;* *I* *hear* *their* *mutual* *whisperings* *;* *I* *recall* *their* *interchanged* *glances* *;* *and* *something* *even* *of* *the* *feeling* *roused* *by* *the* *spectacle* *returns* *in* *memory* *at* *this* *moment* *.*
*But* *as* *matters* *really* *stood* *,* *to* *watch* *Miss* *Ingram* *'s* *efforts* *at* *fascinating* *Mr.* *Rochester* *,* *to* *witness* *their* *repeated* *failure* *--* *herself* *unconscious* *that* *they* *did* *fail* *;* *vainly* *fancying* *that* *each* *shaft* *launched* *hit* *the* *mark* *,* *and* *infatuatedly* *pluming* *herself* *on* *success* *,* *when* *her* *pride* *and* *self-complacency* *repelled* *further* *and* *further* *what* *she* *wished* *to* *allure* *--* *to* *witness* *_* *this* *_* *,* *was* *to* *be* *at* *once* *under* *ceaseless* *excitation* *and* *ruthless* *restraint* *.*
*I* *asked* *myself* *.* *"* *Surely* *she* *can* *not* *truly* *like* *him* *,* *or* *not* *like* *him* *with* *true* *affection* *!*
*Blanche* *Ingram* *,* *after* *having* *repelled* *,* *by* *supercilious* *taciturnity* *,* *some* *efforts* *of* *Mrs.* *Dent* *and* *Mrs.* *Eshton* *to* *draw* *her* *into* *conversation* *,* *had* *first* *murmured* *over* *some* *sentimental* *tunes* *and* *airs* *on* *the* *piano* *,* *and* *then* *,* *having* *fetched* *a* *novel* *from* *the* *library* *,* *had* *flung* *herself* *in* *haughty* *listlessness* *on* *a* *sofa* *,* *and* *prepared* *to* *beguile* *,* *by* *the* *spell* *of* *fiction* *,* *the* *tedious* *hours* *of* *absence* *.*
*``* *It* *appears* *I* *come* *at* *an* *inopportune* *time* *,* *madam* *,* *''* *said* *he* *,* *``* *when* *my* *friend* *,* *Mr.* *Rochester* *,* *is* *from* *home* *;* *but* *I* *arrive* *from* *a* *very* *long* *journey* *,* *and* *I* *think* *I* *may* *presume* *so* *far* *on* *old* *and* *intimate* *acquaintance* *as* *to* *instal* *myself* *here* *till* *he* *returns* *.* *''*
*``* *Tell* *her* *she* *shall* *be* *put* *in* *the* *stocks* *if* *she* *does* *not* *take* *herself* *off* *,* *''* *replied* *the* *magistrate* *.*
*``* *I* *do* *n't* *care* *about* *it* *,* *mother* *;* *you* *may* *please* *yourself* *:* *but* *I* *ought* *to* *warn* *you* *,* *I* *have* *no* *faith* *.* *''*
*"* *Ah* *!* *you* *think* *yourself* *sharp* *.*
*So* *far* *I* *have* *governed* *myself* *thoroughly* *.*
*I* *knew* *gipsies* *and* *fortune-tellers* *did* *not* *express* *themselves* *as* *this* *seeming* *old* *woman* *had* *expressed* *herself* *;* *besides* *I* *had* *noted* *her* *feigned* *voice* *,* *her* *anxiety* *to* *conceal* *her* *features* *.*
*``* *No* *;* *he* *said* *he* *had* *known* *you* *long* *,* *and* *that* *he* *could* *take* *the* *liberty* *of* *installing* *himself* *here* *till* *you* *returned* *.* *''* *"* *The* *devil* *he* *did* *!*
*Calming* *himself* *by* *an* *effort* *,* *he* *added* *--*
*Not* *,* *however* *,* *to* *go* *to* *bed* *:* *on* *the* *contrary* *,* *I* *began* *and* *dressed* *myself* *carefully* *.*
*``* *I* *shall* *have* *to* *leave* *you* *in* *this* *room* *with* *this* *gentleman* *,* *for* *an* *hour* *,* *or* *perhaps* *two* *hours* *:* *you* *will* *sponge* *the* *blood* *as* *I* *do* *when* *it* *returns* *:* *if* *he* *feels* *faint* *,* *you* *will* *put* *the* *glass* *of* *water* *on* *that* *stand* *to* *his* *lips* *,* *and* *your* *salts* *to* *his* *nose* *.* *You* *will* *not* *speak* *to* *him* *on* *any* *pretext* *--* *and* *--* *Richard* *,* *it* *will* *be* *at* *the* *peril* *of* *your* *life* *if* *you* *speak* *to* *her* *:* *open* *your* *lips* *--* *agitate* *yourself* *--* *and* *I* *'ll* *not* *answer* *for* *the* *consequences* *.* *''*
*"* *Well* *then* *,* *Jane* *,* *call* *to* *aid* *your* *fancy* *:* *--* *suppose* *you* *were* *no* *longer* *a* *girl* *well* *reared* *and* *disciplined* *,* *but* *a* *wild* *boy* *indulged* *from* *childhood* *upwards* *;* *imagine* *yourself* *in* *a* *remote* *foreign* *land* *;* *conceive* *that* *you* *there* *commit* *a* *capital* *error* *,* *no* *matter* *of* *what* *nature* *or* *from* *what* *motives* *,* *but* *one* *whose* *consequences* *must* *follow* *you* *through* *life* *and* *taint* *all* *your* *existence* *.*
*I* *have* *myself* *--* *I* *tell* *it* *you* *without* *parable* *--* *been* *a* *worldly* *,* *dissipated* *,* *restless* *man* *;* *and* *I* *believe* *I* *have* *found* *the* *instrument* *for* *my* *cure* *in* *--* *"*
*``* *Why* *,* *you* *see* *,* *Miss* *Eyre* *,* *it* *is* *not* *a* *common* *mishap* *:* *his* *life* *has* *been* *very* *wild* *:* *these* *last* *three* *years* *he* *gave* *himself* *up* *to* *strange* *ways* *,* *and* *his* *death* *was* *shocking* *.* *''*
*How* *he* *died* *,* *God* *knows* *!* *--* *they* *say* *he* *killed* *himself* *.* *"*
*"* *John* *Reed* *is* *dead* *,* *too* *,* *sir* *:* *he* *ruined* *himself* *and* *half-ruined* *his* *family* *,* *and* *is* *supposed* *to* *have* *committed* *suicide* *.*
*``* *How* *long* *is* *he* *going* *to* *stand* *with* *his* *back* *against* *that* *door* *?* *''* *I* *asked* *myself* *;* *``* *I* *want* *to* *commence* *my* *packing* *.* *''*
*Will* *you* *rest* *yourself* *here* *an* *hour* *,* *Miss* *,* *and* *then* *I* *will* *go* *up* *with* *you* *?* *"*
*I* *had* *taken* *a* *journey* *of* *a* *hundred* *miles* *to* *see* *my* *aunt* *,* *and* *I* *must* *stay* *with* *her* *till* *she* *was* *better* *--* *or* *dead* *:* *as* *to* *her* *daughters* *'* *pride* *or* *folly* *,* *I* *must* *put* *it* *on* *one* *side* *,* *make* *myself* *independent* *of* *it* *.*
*Provided* *with* *a* *case* *of* *pencils* *,* *and* *some* *sheets* *of* *paper* *,* *I* *used* *to* *take* *a* *seat* *apart* *from* *them* *,* *near* *the* *window* *,* *and* *busy* *myself* *in* *sketching* *fancy* *vignettes* *,* *representing* *any* *scene* *that* *happened* *momentarily* *to* *shape* *itself* *in* *the* *ever-shifting* *kaleidoscope* *of* *imagination* *:* *a* *glimpse* *of* *sea* *between* *two* *rocks* *;* *the* *rising* *moon* *,* *and* *a* *ship* *crossing* *its* *disk* *;* *a* *group* *of* *reeds* *and* *water-flags* *,* *and* *a* *naiad* *'s* *head* *,* *crowned* *with* *lotus-* *flowers* *,* *rising* *out* *of* *them* *;* *an* *elf* *sitting* *in* *a* *hedge-sparrow* *'s* *nest* *,* *under* *a* *wreath* *of* *hawthorn-bloom* *.*
*She* *had* *an* *alarm* *to* *call* *her* *up* *early* *.* *I* *know* *not* *how* *she* *occupied* *herself* *before* *breakfast* *,* *but* *after* *that* *meal* *she* *divided* *her* *time* *into* *regular* *portions* *,* *and* *each* *hour* *had* *its* *allotted* *task* *.*
*You* *need* *not* *think* *that* *because* *we* *chanced* *to* *be* *born* *of* *the* *same* *parents* *,* *I* *shall* *suffer* *you* *to* *fasten* *me* *down* *by* *even* *the* *feeblest* *claim* *:* *I* *can* *tell* *you* *this* *--* *if* *the* *whole* *human* *race* *,* *ourselves* *excepted* *,* *were* *swept* *away* *,* *and* *we* *two* *stood* *alone* *on* *the* *earth* *,* *I* *would* *leave* *you* *in* *the* *old* *world* *,* *and* *betake* *myself* *to* *the* *new* *.* *"*
*``* *You* *might* *have* *spared* *yourself* *the* *trouble* *of* *delivering* *that* *tirade* *,* *''* *answered* *Georgiana* *.*
*I* *bethought* *myself* *to* *go* *upstairs* *and* *see* *how* *the* *dying* *woman* *sped* *,* *who* *lay* *there* *almost* *unheeded* *:* *the* *very* *servants* *paid* *her* *but* *a* *remittent* *attention* *:* *the* *hired* *nurse* *,* *being* *little* *looked* *after* *,* *would* *slip* *out* *of* *the* *room* *whenever* *she* *could* *.*
*``* *I* *am* *very* *ill* *,* *I* *know* *,* *''* *she* *said* *ere* *long* *.* *"* *I* *was* *trying* *to* *turn* *myself* *a* *few* *minutes* *since* *,* *and* *find* *I* *can* *not* *move* *a* *limb* *.*
*``* *After* *all* *,* *it* *is* *of* *no* *great* *importance* *,* *perhaps* *,* *''* *she* *murmured* *to* *herself* *:* *``* *and* *then* *I* *may* *get* *better* *;* *and* *to* *humble* *myself* *so* *to* *her* *is* *painful* *.* *''*
*I* *shall* *devote* *myself* *for* *a* *time* *to* *the* *examination* *of* *the* *Roman* *Catholic* *dogmas* *,* *and* *to* *a* *careful* *study* *of* *the* *workings* *of* *their* *system* *:* *if* *I* *find* *it* *to* *be* *,* *as* *I* *half* *suspect* *it* *is* *,* *the* *one* *best* *calculated* *to* *ensure* *the* *doing* *of* *all* *things* *decently* *and* *in* *order* *,* *I* *shall* *embrace* *the* *tenets* *of* *Rome* *and* *probably* *take* *the* *veil* *.* *"*
*Mrs.* *Fairfax* *surmised* *that* *he* *was* *gone* *to* *make* *arrangements* *for* *his* *wedding* *,* *as* *he* *had* *talked* *of* *purchasing* *a* *new* *carriage* *:* *she* *said* *the* *idea* *of* *his* *marrying* *Miss* *Ingram* *still* *seemed* *strange* *to* *her* *;* *but* *from* *what* *everybody* *said* *,* *and* *from* *what* *she* *had* *herself* *seen* *,* *she* *could* *no* *longer* *doubt* *that* *the* *event* *would* *shortly* *take* *place* *.*
*I* *felt* *glad* *as* *the* *road* *shortened* *before* *me* *:* *so* *glad* *that* *I* *stopped* *once* *to* *ask* *myself* *what* *that* *joy* *meant* *:* *and* *to* *remind* *reason* *that* *it* *was* *not* *to* *my* *home* *I* *was* *going* *,* *or* *to* *a* *permanent* *resting-place* *,* *or* *to* *a* *place* *where* *fond* *friends* *looked* *out* *for* *me* *and* *waited* *my* *arrival* *.*
*And* *then* *I* *strangled* *a* *new-born* *agony* *--* *a* *deformed* *thing* *which* *I* *could* *not* *persuade* *myself* *to* *own* *and* *rear* *--* *and* *ran* *on* *.*
*``* *Yes* *,* *sir* *,* *I* *will* *advertise* *immediately* *:* *and* *meantime* *,* *I* *suppose* *--* *''* *I* *was* *going* *to* *say* *,* *``* *I* *suppose* *I* *may* *stay* *here* *,* *till* *I* *find* *another* *shelter* *to* *betake* *myself* *to* *:* *''* *but* *I* *stopped* *,* *feeling* *it* *would* *not* *do* *to* *risk* *a* *long* *sentence* *,* *for* *my* *voice* *was* *not* *quite* *under* *command* *.*
*``* *In* *about* *a* *month* *I* *hope* *to* *be* *a* *bridegroom* *,* *''* *continued* *Mr.* *Rochester* *;* *``* *and* *in* *the* *interim* *,* *I* *shall* *myself* *look* *out* *for* *employment* *and* *an* *asylum* *for* *you* *.* *''*
*I* *never* *go* *over* *to* *Ireland* *,* *not* *having* *myself* *much* *of* *a* *fancy* *for* *the* *country* *.*
*Still* *I* *did* *not* *answer* *,* *and* *still* *I* *writhed* *myself* *from* *his* *grasp* *:* *for* *I* *was* *still* *incredulous* *.*
*None* *:* *as* *I* *have* *taken* *pains* *to* *prove* *:* *I* *caused* *a* *rumour* *to* *reach* *her* *that* *my* *fortune* *was* *not* *a* *third* *of* *what* *was* *supposed* *,* *and* *after* *that* *I* *presented* *myself* *to* *see* *the* *result* *;* *it* *was* *coldness* *both* *from* *her* *and* *her* *mother* *.* *I* *would* *not* *--* *I* *could* *not* *--* *marry* *Miss* *Ingram* *.*
*``* *I* *will* *myself* *put* *the* *diamond* *chain* *round* *your* *neck* *,* *and* *the* *circlet* *on* *your* *forehead* *,* *--* *which* *it* *will* *become* *:* *for* *nature* *,* *at* *least* *,* *has* *stamped* *her* *patent* *of* *nobility* *on* *this* *brow* *,* *Jane* *;* *and* *I* *will* *clasp* *the* *bracelets* *on* *these* *fine* *wrists* *,* *and* *load* *these* *fairy-like* *fingers* *with* *rings* *.* *''*
*``* *I* *will* *make* *the* *world* *acknowledge* *you* *a* *beauty* *,* *too* *,* *''* *he* *went* *on* *,* *while* *I* *really* *became* *uneasy* *at* *the* *strain* *he* *had* *adopted* *,* *because* *I* *felt* *he* *was* *either* *deluding* *himself* *or* *trying* *to* *delude* *me* *.*
*I* *would* *as* *soon* *see* *you* *,* *Mr.* *Rochester* *,* *tricked* *out* *in* *stage-trappings* *,* *as* *myself* *clad* *in* *a* *court-lady* *'s* *robe* *;* *and* *I* *do* *n't* *call* *you* *handsome* *,* *sir* *,* *though* *I* *love* *you* *most* *dearly* *:* *far* *too* *dearly* *to* *flatter* *you* *.*
*After* *a* *brief* *stay* *there* *,* *I* *shall* *bear* *my* *treasure* *to* *regions* *nearer* *the* *sun* *:* *to* *French* *vineyards* *and* *Italian* *plains* *;* *and* *she* *shall* *see* *whatever* *is* *famous* *in* *old* *story* *and* *in* *modern* *record* *:* *she* *shall* *taste* *,* *too* *,* *of* *the* *life* *of* *cities* *;* *and* *she* *shall* *learn* *to* *value* *herself* *by* *just* *comparison* *with* *others* *.* *"*
*I* *loved* *him* *very* *much* *--* *more* *than* *I* *could* *trust* *myself* *to* *say* *--* *more* *than* *words* *had* *power* *to* *express* *.*
*Seeing* *me* *,* *she* *roused* *herself* *:* *she* *made* *a* *sort* *of* *effort* *to* *smile* *,* *and* *framed* *a* *few* *words* *of* *congratulation* *;* *but* *the* *smile* *expired* *,* *and* *the* *sentence* *was* *abandoned* *unfinished* *.*
*I* *knew* *such* *an* *idea* *would* *shock* *,* *perhaps* *offend* *you* *;* *and* *you* *were* *so* *discreet* *,* *and* *so* *thoroughly* *modest* *and* *sensible* *,* *I* *hoped* *you* *might* *be* *trusted* *to* *protect* *yourself* *.*
*Try* *and* *keep* *Mr.* *Rochester* *at* *a* *distance* *:* *distrust* *yourself* *as* *well* *as* *him* *.*
*``* *She* *will* *want* *to* *warm* *herself* *:* *what* *will* *she* *do* *for* *a* *fire* *?* *''*
*By* *dint* *of* *entreaties* *expressed* *in* *energetic* *whispers* *,* *I* *reduced* *the* *half-dozen* *to* *two* *:* *these* *however* *,* *he* *vowed* *he* *would* *select* *himself* *.*
*"* *I* *'ll* *be* *preparing* *myself* *to* *go* *out* *as* *a* *missionary* *to* *preach* *liberty* *to* *them* *that* *are* *enslaved* *--* *your* *harem* *inmates* *amongst* *the* *rest* *.*
*I* *'ll* *get* *admitted* *there* *,* *and* *I* *'ll* *stir* *up* *mutiny* *;* *and* *you* *,* *three-tailed* *bashaw* *as* *you* *are* *,* *sir* *,* *shall* *in* *a* *trice* *find* *yourself* *fettered* *amongst* *our* *hands* *:* *nor* *will* *I* *,* *for* *one* *,* *consent* *to* *cut* *your* *bonds* *till* *you* *have* *signed* *a* *charter* *,* *the* *most* *liberal* *that* *despot* *ever* *yet* *conferred* *.* *"*
*Being* *pushed* *unceremoniously* *to* *one* *side* *--* *which* *was* *precisely* *what* *I* *wished* *--* *he* *usurped* *my* *place* *,* *and* *proceeded* *to* *accompany* *himself* *:* *for* *he* *could* *play* *as* *well* *as* *sing* *.*
*Here* *I* *heard* *myself* *apostrophised* *as* *a* *``* *hard* *little* *thing* *;* *''* *and* *it* *was* *added* *,* *``* *any* *other* *woman* *would* *have* *been* *melted* *to* *marrow* *at* *hearing* *such* *stanzas* *crooned* *in* *her* *praise* *.* *''*
*Mr.* *Rochester* *had* *himself* *written* *the* *direction* *,* *``* *Mrs.* *Rochester* *,* *--* *-* *Hotel* *,* *London* *,* *''* *on* *each* *:* *I* *could* *not* *persuade* *myself* *to* *affix* *them* *,* *or* *to* *have* *them* *affixed* *.*
*As* *I* *looked* *up* *at* *them* *,* *the* *moon* *appeared* *momentarily* *in* *that* *part* *of* *the* *sky* *which* *filled* *their* *fissure* *;* *her* *disk* *was* *blood-red* *and* *half* *overcast* *;* *she* *seemed* *to* *throw* *on* *me* *one* *bewildered* *,* *dreary* *glance* *,* *and* *buried* *herself* *again* *instantly* *in* *the* *deep* *drift* *of* *cloud* *.*
*Here* *and* *there* *I* *strayed* *through* *the* *orchard* *,* *gathered* *up* *the* *apples* *with* *which* *the* *grass* *round* *the* *tree* *roots* *was* *thickly* *strewn* *;* *then* *I* *employed* *myself* *in* *dividing* *the* *ripe* *from* *the* *unripe* *;* *I* *carried* *them* *into* *the* *house* *and* *put* *them* *away* *in* *the* *store-room* *.*
*I* *lingered* *;* *the* *moon* *shut* *herself* *wholly* *within* *her* *chamber* *,* *and* *drew* *close* *her* *curtain* *of* *dense* *cloud* *:* *the* *night* *grew* *dark* *;* *rain* *came* *driving* *fast* *on* *the* *gale* *.*
*He* *checked* *himself* *in* *his* *exultation* *to* *demand* *,* *"* *But* *is* *there* *anything* *the* *matter* *,* *Janet* *,* *that* *you* *come* *to* *meet* *me* *at* *such* *an* *hour* *?*
*I* *thought* *how* *I* *would* *carry* *down* *to* *you* *the* *square* *of* *unembroidered* *blond* *I* *had* *myself* *prepared* *as* *a* *covering* *for* *my* *low-born* *head* *,* *and* *ask* *if* *that* *was* *not* *good* *enough* *for* *a* *woman* *who* *could* *bring* *her* *husband* *neither* *fortune* *,* *beauty* *,* *nor* *connections* *.*
*She* *seemed* *the* *emblem* *of* *my* *past* *life* *;* *and* *here* *I* *was* *now* *to* *array* *myself* *to* *meet* *,* *the* *dread* *,* *but* *adored* *,* *type* *of* *my* *unknown* *future* *day* *.*
*Mr.* *Rochester* *heard* *,* *but* *heeded* *not* *:* *he* *stood* *stubborn* *and* *rigid* *,* *making* *no* *movement* *but* *to* *possess* *himself* *of* *my* *hand* *.*
*The* *house* *cleared* *,* *I* *shut* *myself* *in* *,* *fastened* *the* *bolt* *that* *none* *might* *intrude* *,* *and* *proceeded* *--* *not* *to* *weep* *,* *not* *to* *mourn* *,* *I* *was* *yet* *too* *calm* *for* *that* *,* *but* *--* *mechanically* *to* *take* *off* *the* *wedding* *dress* *,* *and* *replace* *it* *by* *the* *stuff* *gown* *I* *had* *worn* *yesterday* *,* *as* *I* *thought* *,* *for* *the* *last* *time* *.*
*``* *No* *;* *you* *shall* *tear* *yourself* *away* *,* *none* *shall* *help* *you* *:* *you* *shall* *yourself* *pluck* *out* *your* *right* *eye* *;* *yourself* *cut* *off* *your* *right* *hand* *:* *your* *heart* *shall* *be* *the* *victim* *,* *and* *you* *the* *priest* *to* *transfix* *it* *.* *''*
*I* *could* *not* *soon* *recover* *myself* *.*
*So* *you* *shun* *me* *?* *--* *you* *shut* *yourself* *up* *and* *grieve* *alone* *!*
*What* *do* *you* *say* *to* *that* *?* *I* *see* *you* *can* *say* *nothing* *in* *the* *first* *place* *,* *you* *are* *faint* *still* *,* *and* *have* *enough* *to* *do* *to* *draw* *your* *breath* *;* *in* *the* *second* *place* *,* *you* *can* *not* *yet* *accustom* *yourself* *to* *accuse* *and* *revile* *me* *,* *and* *besides* *,* *the* *flood-gates* *of* *tears* *are* *opened* *,* *and* *they* *would* *rush* *out* *if* *you* *spoke* *much* *;* *and* *you* *have* *no* *desire* *to* *expostulate* *,* *to* *upbraid* *,* *to* *make* *a* *scene* *:* *you* *are* *thinking* *how* *_* *to* *act* *_* *--* *_* *talking* *_* *you* *consider* *is* *of* *no* *use* *.* *I* *know* *you* *--* *I* *am* *on* *my* *guard* *.* *"*
*You* *intend* *to* *make* *yourself* *a* *complete* *stranger* *to* *me* *:* *to* *live* *under* *this* *roof* *only* *as* *Adele* *'s* *governess* *;* *if* *ever* *I* *say* *a* *friendly* *word* *to* *you* *,* *if* *ever* *a* *friendly* *feeling* *inclines* *you* *again* *to* *me* *,* *you* *will* *say* *,* *--* *'* *That* *man* *had* *nearly* *made* *me* *his* *mistress* *:* *I* *must* *be* *ice* *and* *rock* *to* *him* *;* *'* *and* *ice* *and* *rock* *you* *will* *accordingly* *become* *.* *"*
*when* *I* *found* *that* *I* *could* *not* *pass* *a* *single* *evening* *,* *nor* *even* *a* *single* *hour* *of* *the* *day* *with* *her* *in* *comfort* *;* *that* *kindly* *conversation* *could* *not* *be* *sustained* *between* *us* *,* *because* *whatever* *topic* *I* *started* *,* *immediately* *received* *from* *her* *a* *turn* *at* *once* *coarse* *and* *trite* *,* *perverse* *and* *imbecile* *--* *when* *I* *perceived* *that* *I* *should* *never* *have* *a* *quiet* *or* *settled* *household* *,* *because* *no* *servant* *would* *bear* *the* *continued* *outbreaks* *of* *her* *violent* *and* *unreasonable* *temper* *,* *or* *the* *vexations* *of* *her* *absurd* *,* *contradictory* *,* *exacting* *orders* *--* *even* *then* *I* *restrained* *myself* *:* *I* *eschewed* *upbraiding* *,* *I* *curtailed* *remonstrance* *;* *I* *tried* *to* *devour* *my* *repentance* *and* *disgust* *in* *secret* *;* *I* *repressed* *the* *deep* *antipathy* *I* *felt* *.*
*And* *I* *could* *not* *rid* *myself* *of* *it* *by* *any* *legal* *proceedings* *:* *for* *the* *doctors* *now* *discovered* *that* *_* *my* *wife* *_* *was* *mad* *--* *her* *excesses* *had* *prematurely* *developed* *the* *germs* *of* *insanity* *.*
*In* *the* *eyes* *of* *the* *world* *,* *I* *was* *doubtless* *covered* *with* *grimy* *dishonour* *;* *but* *I* *resolved* *to* *be* *clean* *in* *my* *own* *sight* *--* *and* *to* *the* *last* *I* *repudiated* *the* *contamination* *of* *her* *crimes* *,* *and* *wrenched* *myself* *from* *connection* *with* *her* *mental* *defects* *.*
*I* *have* *a* *right* *to* *deliver* *myself* *from* *it* *if* *I* *can* *.*
*"* *I* *said* *this* *whilst* *I* *knelt* *down* *at* *,* *and* *unlocked* *a* *trunk* *which* *contained* *a* *brace* *of* *loaded* *pistols* *:* *I* *mean* *to* *shoot* *myself* *.*
*You* *may* *take* *the* *maniac* *with* *you* *to* *England* *;* *confine* *her* *with* *due* *attendance* *and* *precautions* *at* *Thornfield* *:* *then* *travel* *yourself* *to* *what* *clime* *you* *will* *,* *and* *form* *what* *new* *tie* *you* *like* *.*
*The* *lunatic* *is* *both* *cunning* *and* *malignant* *;* *she* *has* *never* *failed* *to* *take* *advantage* *of* *her* *guardian* *'s* *temporary* *lapses* *;* *once* *to* *secrete* *the* *knife* *with* *which* *she* *stabbed* *her* *brother* *,* *and* *twice* *to* *possess* *herself* *of* *the* *key* *of* *her* *cell* *,* *and* *issue* *therefrom* *in* *the* *night-time* *.*
*I* *transformed* *myself* *into* *a* *will-o* *'* *-the-wisp* *.*
*I* *felt* *the* *truth* *of* *these* *words* *;* *and* *I* *drew* *from* *them* *the* *certain* *inference* *,* *that* *if* *I* *were* *so* *far* *to* *forget* *myself* *and* *all* *the* *teaching* *that* *had* *ever* *been* *instilled* *into* *me* *,* *as* *--* *under* *any* *pretext* *--* *with* *any* *justification* *--* *through* *any* *temptation* *--* *to* *become* *the* *successor* *of* *these* *poor* *girls* *,* *he* *would* *one* *day* *regard* *me* *with* *the* *same* *feeling* *which* *now* *in* *his* *mind* *desecrated* *their* *memory* *.*
*When* *at* *last* *she* *left* *you* *,* *you* *lapsed* *at* *once* *into* *deep* *reverie* *:* *you* *betook* *yourself* *slowly* *to* *pace* *the* *gallery* *.*
*Your* *garb* *and* *manner* *were* *restricted* *by* *rule* *;* *your* *air* *was* *often* *diffident* *,* *and* *altogether* *that* *of* *one* *refined* *by* *nature* *,* *but* *absolutely* *unused* *to* *society* *,* *and* *a* *good* *deal* *afraid* *of* *making* *herself* *disadvantageously* *conspicuous* *by* *some* *solecism* *or* *blunder* *;* *yet* *when* *addressed* *,* *you* *lifted* *a* *keen* *,* *a* *daring* *,* *and* *a* *glowing* *eye* *to* *your* *interlocutor* *'s* *face* *:* *there* *was* *penetration* *and* *power* *in* *each* *glance* *you* *gave* *;* *when* *plied* *by* *close* *questions* *,* *you* *found* *ready* *and* *round* *answers* *.*
*I* *permitted* *myself* *the* *delight* *of* *being* *kind* *to* *you* *;* *kindness* *stirred* *emotion* *soon* *:* *your* *face* *became* *soft* *in* *expression* *,* *your* *tones* *gentle* *;* *I* *liked* *my* *name* *pronounced* *by* *your* *lips* *in* *a* *grateful* *happy* *accent* *.*
*``* *I* *do* *,* *''* *extricating* *myself* *from* *restraint* *rapidly* *and* *completely* *.*
*The* *more* *solitary* *,* *the* *more* *friendless* *,* *the* *more* *unsustained* *I* *am* *,* *the* *more* *I* *will* *respect* *myself* *.*
*Conqueror* *I* *might* *be* *of* *the* *house* *;* *but* *the* *inmate* *would* *escape* *to* *heaven* *before* *I* *could* *call* *myself* *possessor* *of* *its* *clay* *dwelling-place* *.*
*He* *turned* *away* *;* *he* *threw* *himself* *on* *his* *face* *on* *the* *sofa* *.*
*He* *would* *feel* *himself* *forsaken* *;* *his* *love* *rejected* *:* *he* *would* *suffer* *;* *perhaps* *grow* *desperate* *.*
*In* *the* *midst* *of* *my* *pain* *of* *heart* *and* *frantic* *effort* *of* *principle* *,* *I* *abhorred* *myself* *.*
*It* *is* *the* *clergyman* *'s* *function* *to* *help* *--* *at* *least* *with* *advice* *--* *those* *who* *wished* *to* *help* *themselves* *.*
*And* *why* *can* *not* *I* *reconcile* *myself* *to* *the* *prospect* *of* *death* *?*
*I* *began* *once* *more* *to* *know* *myself* *;* *and* *when* *Mr.* *St.* *John* *demanded* *an* *account* *--* *which* *at* *present* *I* *was* *far* *too* *weak* *to* *render* *--* *I* *said* *after* *a* *brief* *pause* *--*
*After* *a* *weary* *process* *,* *and* *resting* *every* *five* *minutes* *,* *I* *succeeded* *in* *dressing* *myself* *.*
*``* *Whatever* *can* *not* *ye* *keep* *yourself* *for* *,* *then* *?* *''*
*"* *I* *have* *kept* *myself* *;* *and* *,* *I* *trust* *,* *shall* *keep* *myself* *again* *.*
*I* *feel* *more* *inclination* *to* *put* *you* *in* *the* *way* *of* *keeping* *yourself* *,* *and* *shall* *endeavour* *to* *do* *so* *;* *but* *observe* *,* *my* *sphere* *is* *narrow* *.*
*Often* *,* *of* *an* *evening* *,* *when* *he* *sat* *at* *the* *window* *,* *his* *desk* *and* *papers* *before* *him* *,* *he* *would* *cease* *reading* *or* *writing* *,* *rest* *his* *chin* *on* *his* *hand* *,* *and* *deliver* *himself* *up* *to* *I* *know* *not* *what* *course* *of* *thought* *;* *but* *that* *it* *was* *perturbed* *and* *exciting* *might* *be* *seen* *in* *the* *frequent* *flash* *and* *changeful* *dilation* *of* *his* *eye* *.*
*``* *Yes* *;* *I* *wish* *to* *know* *whether* *you* *have* *heard* *of* *any* *service* *I* *can* *offer* *myself* *to* *undertake* *?* *''*
*I* *am* *obscure* *:* *Rivers* *is* *an* *old* *name* *;* *but* *of* *the* *three* *sole* *descendants* *of* *the* *race* *,* *two* *earn* *the* *dependant* *'s* *crust* *among* *strangers* *,* *and* *the* *third* *considers* *himself* *an* *alien* *from* *his* *native* *country* *--* *not* *only* *for* *life* *,* *but* *in* *death* *.*
*"* *And* *since* *I* *am* *myself* *poor* *and* *obscure* *,* *I* *can* *offer* *you* *but* *a* *service* *of* *poverty* *and* *obscurity* *.* *_* *You* *_* *may* *even* *think* *it* *degrading* *--* *for* *I* *see* *now* *your* *habits* *have* *been* *what* *the* *world* *calls* *refined* *:* *your* *tastes* *lean* *to* *the* *ideal* *,* *and* *your* *society* *has* *at* *least* *been* *amongst* *the* *educated* *;* *but* *_* *I* *_* *consider* *that* *no* *service* *degrades* *which* *can* *better* *our* *race* *.*
*I* *shall* *leave* *the* *place* *probably* *in* *the* *course* *of* *a* *twelve-month* *;* *but* *while* *I* *do* *stay* *,* *I* *will* *exert* *myself* *to* *the* *utmost* *for* *its* *improvement* *.*
*You* *hear* *now* *how* *I* *contradict* *myself* *.*
*Mary* *and* *I* *would* *have* *esteemed* *ourselves* *rich* *with* *a* *thousand* *pounds* *each* *;* *and* *to* *St.* *John* *such* *a* *sum* *would* *have* *been* *valuable* *,* *for* *the* *good* *it* *would* *have* *enabled* *him* *to* *do* *.* *"*
*Not* *to* *deceive* *myself* *,* *I* *must* *reply* *--* *No* *:* *I* *felt* *desolate* *to* *a* *degree* *.*
*But* *let* *me* *not* *hate* *and* *despise* *myself* *too* *much* *for* *these* *feelings* *;* *I* *know* *them* *to* *be* *wrong* *--* *that* *is* *a* *great* *step* *gained* *;* *I* *shall* *strive* *to* *overcome* *them* *.*
*Meantime* *,* *let* *me* *ask* *myself* *one* *question* *--* *Which* *is* *better* *?* *--* *To* *have* *surrendered* *to* *temptation* *;* *listened* *to* *passion* *;* *made* *no* *painful* *effort* *--* *no* *struggle* *;* *--* *but* *to* *have* *sunk* *down* *in* *the* *silken* *snare* *;* *fallen* *asleep* *on* *the* *flowers* *covering* *it* *;* *wakened* *in* *a* *southern* *clime* *,* *amongst* *the* *luxuries* *of* *a* *pleasure* *villa* *:* *to* *have* *been* *now* *living* *in* *France* *,* *Mr.* *Rochester* *'s* *mistress* *;* *delirious* *with* *his* *love* *half* *my* *time* *--* *for* *he* *would* *--* *oh* *,* *yes* *,* *he* *would* *have* *loved* *me* *well* *for* *a* *while* *.*
*While* *I* *looked* *,* *I* *thought* *myself* *happy* *,* *and* *was* *surprised* *to* *find* *myself* *ere* *long* *weeping* *--* *and* *why* *?*
*I* *naturally* *asked* *myself* *that* *question* *as* *I* *saw* *him* *turn* *to* *her* *and* *look* *at* *her* *;* *and* *,* *as* *naturally* *,* *I* *sought* *the* *answer* *to* *the* *inquiry* *in* *his* *countenance* *.*
*There* *was* *a* *difference* *amongst* *them* *as* *amongst* *the* *educated* *;* *and* *when* *I* *got* *to* *know* *them* *,* *and* *they* *me* *,* *this* *difference* *rapidly* *developed* *itself* *.*
*Many* *showed* *themselves* *obliging* *,* *and* *amiable* *too* *;* *and* *I* *discovered* *amongst* *them* *not* *a* *few* *examples* *of* *natural* *politeness* *,* *and* *innate* *self-respect* *,* *as* *well* *as* *of* *excellent* *capacity* *,* *that* *won* *both* *my* *goodwill* *and* *my* *admiration* *.*
*I* *promised* *myself* *the* *pleasure* *of* *colouring* *it* *;* *and* *,* *as* *it* *was* *getting* *late* *then* *,* *I* *told* *her* *she* *must* *come* *and* *sit* *another* *day* *.*
*I* *had* *also* *made* *myself* *neat* *,* *and* *had* *now* *the* *afternoon* *before* *me* *to* *spend* *as* *I* *would* *.*
*``* *With* *all* *his* *firmness* *and* *self-control* *,* *''* *thought* *I* *,* *"* *he* *tasks* *himself* *too* *far* *:* *locks* *every* *feeling* *and* *pang* *within* *--* *expresses* *,* *confesses* *,* *imparts* *nothing* *.*
*And* *now* *it* *is* *deluged* *with* *a* *nectarous* *flood* *--* *the* *young* *germs* *swamped* *--* *delicious* *poison* *cankering* *them* *:* *now* *I* *see* *myself* *stretched* *on* *an* *ottoman* *in* *the* *drawing-room* *at* *Vale* *Hall* *at* *my* *bride* *Rosamond* *Oliver* *'s* *feet* *:* *she* *is* *talking* *to* *me* *with* *her* *sweet* *voice* *--* *gazing* *down* *on* *me* *with* *those* *eyes* *your* *skilful* *hand* *has* *copied* *so* *well* *--* *smiling* *at* *me* *with* *these* *coral* *lips* *.*
*When* *I* *colour* *,* *and* *when* *I* *shade* *before* *Miss* *Oliver* *,* *I* *do* *not* *pity* *myself* *.*
*``* *You* *would* *describe* *yourself* *as* *a* *mere* *pagan* *philosopher* *,* *''* *I* *said* *.*
*I* *bethought* *myself* *to* *talk* *about* *the* *school* *and* *my* *scholars* *.*
*Mrs.* *Reed* *kept* *the* *orphan* *ten* *years* *:* *whether* *it* *was* *happy* *or* *not* *with* *her* *,* *I* *can* *not* *say* *,* *never* *having* *been* *told* *;* *but* *at* *the* *end* *of* *that* *time* *she* *transferred* *it* *to* *a* *place* *you* *know* *--* *being* *no* *other* *than* *Lowood* *School* *,* *where* *you* *so* *long* *resided* *yourself* *.*
*One* *does* *not* *jump* *,* *and* *spring* *,* *and* *shout* *hurrah* *!* *at* *hearing* *one* *has* *got* *a* *fortune* *;* *one* *begins* *to* *consider* *responsibilities* *,* *and* *to* *ponder* *business* *;* *on* *a* *base* *of* *steady* *satisfaction* *rise* *certain* *grave* *cares* *,* *and* *we* *contain* *ourselves* *,* *and* *brood* *over* *our* *bliss* *with* *a* *solemn* *brow* *.*
*``* *No* *;* *to-night* *!* *--* *to-night* *!* *''* *and* *as* *he* *turned* *from* *the* *door* *,* *I* *placed* *myself* *between* *it* *and* *him* *.*
*I* *stopped* *:* *I* *could* *not* *trust* *myself* *to* *entertain* *,* *much* *less* *to* *express* *,* *the* *thought* *that* *rushed* *upon* *me* *--* *that* *embodied* *itself* *,* *--* *that* *,* *in* *a* *second* *,* *stood* *out* *a* *strong* *,* *solid* *probability* *.*
*Circumstances* *knit* *themselves* *,* *fitted* *themselves* *,* *shot* *into* *order* *:* *the* *chain* *that* *had* *been* *lying* *hitherto* *a* *formless* *lump* *of* *links* *was* *drawn* *out* *straight* *,* *--* *every* *ring* *was* *perfect* *,* *the* *connection* *complete* *.*
*Diana* *said* *they* *would* *both* *consider* *themselves* *rich* *with* *a* *thousand* *pounds* *,* *so* *with* *five* *thousand* *they* *will* *do* *very* *well* *.* *"*
*``* *Perhaps* *,* *if* *you* *explained* *yourself* *a* *little* *more* *fully* *,* *I* *should* *comprehend* *better* *.* *''*
*I* *like* *Moor* *House* *,* *and* *I* *will* *live* *at* *Moor* *House* *;* *I* *like* *Diana* *and* *Mary* *,* *and* *I* *will* *attach* *myself* *for* *life* *to* *Diana* *and* *Mary* *.*
*"* *Jane* *,* *I* *excuse* *you* *for* *the* *present* *:* *two* *months* *'* *grace* *I* *allow* *you* *for* *the* *full* *enjoyment* *of* *your* *new* *position* *,* *and* *for* *pleasing* *yourself* *with* *this* *late-found* *charm* *of* *relationship* *;* *but* *_* *then* *_* *,* *I* *hope* *you* *will* *begin* *to* *look* *beyond* *Moor* *House* *and* *Morton* *,* *and* *sisterly* *society* *,* *and* *the* *selfish* *calm* *and* *sensual* *comfort* *of* *civilised* *affluence* *.*
*And* *try* *to* *restrain* *the* *disproportionate* *fervour* *with* *which* *you* *throw* *yourself* *into* *commonplace* *home* *pleasures* *.*
*I* *comprehended* *how* *he* *should* *despise* *himself* *for* *the* *feverish* *influence* *it* *exercised* *over* *him* *;* *how* *he* *should* *wish* *to* *stifle* *and* *destroy* *it* *;* *how* *he* *should* *mistrust* *its* *ever* *conducting* *permanently* *to* *his* *happiness* *or* *hers* *.*
*As* *I* *exchanged* *a* *translation* *for* *an* *exercise* *,* *I* *happened* *to* *look* *his* *way* *:* *there* *I* *found* *myself* *under* *the* *influence* *of* *the* *ever-watchful* *blue* *eye* *.*
*As* *for* *me* *,* *I* *daily* *wished* *more* *to* *please* *him* *;* *but* *to* *do* *so* *,* *I* *felt* *daily* *more* *and* *more* *that* *I* *must* *disown* *half* *my* *nature* *,* *stifle* *half* *my* *faculties* *,* *wrest* *my* *tastes* *from* *their* *original* *bent* *,* *force* *myself* *to* *the* *adoption* *of* *pursuits* *for* *which* *I* *had* *no* *natural* *vocation* *.*
*Or* *who* *,* *that* *ever* *was* *truly* *called* *,* *believed* *himself* *worthy* *of* *the* *summons* *?*
*With* *St.* *Paul* *,* *I* *acknowledge* *myself* *the* *chiefest* *of* *sinners* *;* *but* *I* *do* *not* *suffer* *this* *sense* *of* *my* *personal* *vileness* *to* *daunt* *me* *.*
*Jane* *,* *you* *are* *docile* *,* *diligent* *,* *disinterested* *,* *faithful* *,* *constant* *,* *and* *courageous* *;* *very* *gentle* *,* *and* *very* *heroic* *:* *cease* *to* *mistrust* *yourself* *--* *I* *can* *trust* *you* *unreservedly* *.*
*My* *work* *,* *which* *had* *appeared* *so* *vague* *,* *so* *hopelessly* *diffuse* *,* *condensed* *itself* *as* *he* *proceeded* *,* *and* *assumed* *a* *definite* *form* *under* *his* *shaping* *hand* *.*
*``* *Very* *willingly* *,* *''* *he* *rejoined* *;* *and* *rising* *,* *he* *strode* *a* *little* *distance* *up* *the* *pass* *,* *threw* *himself* *down* *on* *a* *swell* *of* *heath* *,* *and* *there* *lay* *still* *.*
*But* *as* *it* *is* *,* *either* *our* *union* *must* *be* *consecrated* *and* *sealed* *by* *marriage* *,* *or* *it* *can* *not* *exist* *:* *practical* *obstacles* *oppose* *themselves* *to* *any* *other* *plan* *.*
*I* *said* *briefly* *;* *and* *I* *looked* *at* *his* *features* *,* *beautiful* *in* *their* *harmony* *,* *but* *strangely* *formidable* *in* *their* *still* *severity* *;* *at* *his* *brow* *,* *commanding* *but* *not* *open* *;* *at* *his* *eyes* *,* *bright* *and* *deep* *and* *searching* *,* *but* *never* *soft* *;* *at* *his* *tall* *imposing* *figure* *;* *and* *fancied* *myself* *in* *idea* *_* *his* *wife* *_* *.*
*Refuse* *to* *be* *my* *wife* *,* *and* *you* *limit* *yourself* *for* *ever* *to* *a* *track* *of* *selfish* *ease* *and* *barren* *obscurity* *.*
*St.* *John* *--* *you* *know* *him* *--* *would* *urge* *you* *to* *impossibilities* *:* *with* *him* *there* *would* *be* *no* *permission* *to* *rest* *during* *the* *hot* *hours* *;* *and* *unfortunately* *,* *I* *have* *noticed* *,* *whatever* *he* *exacts* *,* *you* *force* *yourself* *to* *perform* *.*
*``* *I* *must* *indeed* *,* *''* *I* *said* *;* *"* *for* *when* *just* *now* *I* *repeated* *the* *offer* *of* *serving* *him* *for* *a* *deacon* *,* *he* *expressed* *himself* *shocked* *at* *my* *want* *of* *decency* *.*
*"* *You* *should* *hear* *himself* *on* *the* *subject* *.*
*I* *mounted* *to* *my* *chamber* *;* *locked* *myself* *in* *;* *fell* *on* *my* *knees* *;* *and* *prayed* *in* *my* *way* *--* *a* *different* *way* *to* *St.* *John* *'s* *,* *but* *effective* *in* *its* *own* *fashion* *.* *I* *seemed* *to* *penetrate* *very* *near* *a* *Mighty* *Spirit* *;* *and* *my* *soul* *rushed* *out* *in* *gratitude* *at* *His* *feet* *.*
*I* *busied* *myself* *for* *an* *hour* *or* *two* *with* *arranging* *my* *things* *in* *my* *chamber* *,* *drawers* *,* *and* *wardrobe* *,* *in* *the* *order* *wherein* *I* *should* *wish* *to* *leave* *them* *during* *a* *brief* *absence* *.*
*The* *suggestion* *was* *sensible* *,* *and* *yet* *I* *could* *not* *force* *myself* *to* *act* *on* *it* *.*
*The* *host* *himself* *brought* *my* *breakfast* *into* *the* *parlour* *.*
*It* *is* *excusable* *,* *for* *she* *had* *a* *hard* *life* *of* *it* *:* *but* *still* *it* *was* *dangerous* *;* *for* *when* *Mrs.* *Poole* *was* *fast* *asleep* *after* *the* *gin* *and* *water* *,* *the* *mad* *lady* *,* *who* *was* *as* *cunning* *as* *a* *witch* *,* *would* *take* *the* *keys* *out* *of* *her* *pocket* *,* *let* *herself* *out* *of* *her* *chamber* *,* *and* *go* *roaming* *about* *the* *house* *,* *doing* *any* *wild* *mischief* *that* *came* *into* *her* *head* *.*
*He* *broke* *off* *acquaintance* *with* *all* *the* *gentry* *,* *and* *shut* *himself* *up* *like* *a* *hermit* *at* *the* *Hall* *.* *"*
*As* *he* *came* *down* *the* *great* *staircase* *at* *last* *,* *after* *Mrs.* *Rochester* *had* *flung* *herself* *from* *the* *battlements* *,* *there* *was* *a* *great* *crash* *--* *all* *fell* *.*
*Iron* *gates* *between* *granite* *pillars* *showed* *me* *where* *to* *enter* *,* *and* *passing* *through* *them* *,* *I* *found* *myself* *at* *once* *in* *the* *twilight* *of* *close-ranked* *trees* *.*
*He* *suddenly* *seemed* *to* *arouse* *himself* *:* *the* *conviction* *of* *the* *reality* *of* *all* *this* *seized* *him* *.*
*``* *But* *as* *you* *are* *rich* *,* *Jane* *,* *you* *have* *now* *,* *no* *doubt* *,* *friends* *who* *will* *look* *after* *you* *,* *and* *not* *suffer* *you* *to* *devote* *yourself* *to* *a* *blind* *lameter* *like* *me* *?* *''*
*But* *no* *hint* *to* *that* *effect* *escaping* *him* *and* *his* *countenance* *becoming* *more* *overcast* *,* *I* *suddenly* *remembered* *that* *I* *might* *have* *been* *all* *wrong* *,* *and* *was* *perhaps* *playing* *the* *fool* *unwittingly* *;* *and* *I* *began* *gently* *to* *withdraw* *myself* *from* *his* *arms* *--* *but* *he* *eagerly* *snatched* *me* *closer* *.*
*But* *I* *would* *not* *be* *lachrymose* *:* *I* *dashed* *off* *the* *salt* *drops* *,* *and* *busied* *myself* *with* *preparing* *breakfast* *.*
*Violent* *as* *he* *had* *seemed* *in* *his* *despair* *,* *he* *,* *in* *truth* *,* *loved* *me* *far* *too* *well* *and* *too* *tenderly* *to* *constitute* *himself* *my* *tyrant* *:* *he* *would* *have* *given* *me* *half* *his* *fortune* *,* *without* *demanding* *so* *much* *as* *a* *kiss* *in* *return* *,* *rather* *than* *I* *should* *have* *flung* *myself* *friendless* *on* *the* *wide* *world* *.*
*I* *hold* *myself* *supremely* *blest* *--* *blest* *beyond* *what* *language* *can* *express* *;* *because* *I* *am* *my* *husband* *'s* *life* *as* *fully* *as* *he* *is* *mine* *.*
*His* *is* *the* *exaction* *of* *the* *apostle* *,* *who* *speaks* *but* *for* *Christ* *,* *when* *he* *says* *--* *``* *Whosoever* *will* *come* *after* *me* *,* *let* *him* *deny* *himself* *,* *and* *take* *up* *his* *cross* *and* *follow* *me* *.* *''* *His* *is* *the* *ambition* *of* *the* *high* *master-spirit* *,* *which* *aims* *to* *fill* *a* *place* *in* *the* *first* *rank* *of* *those* *who* *are* *redeemed* *from* *the* *earth* *--* *who* *stand* *without* *fault* *before* *the* *throne* *of* *God* *,* *who* *share* *the* *last* *mighty* *victories* *of* *the* *Lamb* *,* *who* *are* *called* *,* *and* *chosen* *,* *and* *faithful* *.*
*Himself* *has* *hitherto* *sufficed* *to* *the* *toil* *,* *and* *the* *toil* *draws* *near* *its* *close* *:* *his* *glorious* *sun* *hastens* *to* *its* *setting* *.*
*The* *rabbit-hole* *went* *straight* *on* *like* *a* *tunnel* *for* *some* *way* *,* *and* *then* *dipped* *suddenly* *down* *,* *so* *suddenly* *that* *Alice* *had* *not* *a* *moment* *to* *think* *about* *stopping* *herself* *before* *she* *found* *herself* *falling* *down* *a* *very* *deep* *well* *.*
*There* *was* *not* *a* *moment* *to* *be* *lost* *:* *away* *went* *Alice* *like* *the* *wind* *,* *and* *was* *just* *in* *time* *to* *hear* *it* *say* *,* *as* *it* *turned* *a* *corner* *,* *'* *Oh* *my* *ears* *and* *whiskers* *,* *how* *late* *it* *'s* *getting* *!* *'* *She* *was* *close* *behind* *it* *when* *she* *turned* *the* *corner* *,* *but* *the* *Rabbit* *was* *no* *longer* *to* *be* *seen* *:* *she* *found* *herself* *in* *a* *long* *,* *low* *hall* *,* *which* *was* *lit* *up* *by* *a* *row* *of* *lamps* *hanging* *from* *the* *roof* *.*
*After* *a* *while* *,* *finding* *that* *nothing* *more* *happened* *,* *she* *decided* *on* *going* *into* *the* *garden* *at* *once* *;* *but* *,* *alas* *for* *poor* *Alice* *!* *when* *she* *got* *to* *the* *door* *,* *she* *found* *she* *had* *forgotten* *the* *little* *golden* *key* *,* *and* *when* *she* *went* *back* *to* *the* *table* *for* *it* *,* *she* *found* *she* *could* *not* *possibly* *reach* *it* *:* *she* *could* *see* *it* *quite* *plainly* *through* *the* *glass* *,* *and* *she* *tried* *her* *best* *to* *climb* *up* *one* *of* *the* *legs* *of* *the* *table* *,* *but* *it* *was* *too* *slippery* *;* *and* *when* *she* *had* *tired* *herself* *out* *with* *trying* *,* *the* *poor* *little* *thing* *sat* *down* *and* *cried* *.*
*'* *Come* *,* *there* *'s* *no* *use* *in* *crying* *like* *that* *!* *'* *said* *Alice* *to* *herself* *,* *rather* *sharply* *;* *'* *I* *advise* *you* *to* *leave* *off* *this* *minute* *!* *'* *She* *generally* *gave* *herself* *very* *good* *advice* *,* *(* *though* *she* *very* *seldom* *followed* *it* *)* *,* *and* *sometimes* *she* *scolded* *herself* *so* *severely* *as* *to* *bring* *tears* *into* *her* *eyes* *;* *and* *once* *she* *remembered* *trying* *to* *box* *her* *own* *ears* *for* *having* *cheated* *herself* *in* *a* *game* *of* *croquet* *she* *was* *playing* *against* *herself* *,* *for* *this* *curious* *child* *was* *very* *fond* *of* *pretending* *to* *be* *two* *people* *.*
*I* *'m* *sure* *I* *sha* *n't* *be* *able* *!* *I* *shall* *be* *a* *great* *deal* *too* *far* *off* *to* *trouble* *myself* *about* *you* *:* *you* *must* *manage* *the* *best* *way* *you* *can* *;* *--* *but* *I* *must* *be* *kind* *to* *them* *,* *'* *thought* *Alice* *,* *'* *or* *perhaps* *they* *wo* *n't* *walk* *the* *way* *I* *want* *to* *go* *!*
*Alice* *took* *up* *the* *fan* *and* *gloves* *,* *and* *,* *as* *the* *hall* *was* *very* *hot* *,* *she* *kept* *fanning* *herself* *all* *the* *time* *she* *went* *on* *talking* *:* *'* *Dear* *,* *dear* *!* *How* *queer* *everything* *is* *to-day* *!*
*'* *I* *must* *be* *growing* *small* *again* *.* *'* *She* *got* *up* *and* *went* *to* *the* *table* *to* *measure* *herself* *by* *it* *,* *and* *found* *that* *,* *as* *nearly* *as* *she* *could* *guess* *,* *she* *was* *now* *about* *two* *feet* *high* *,* *and* *was* *going* *on* *shrinking* *rapidly* *:* *she* *soon* *found* *out* *that* *the* *cause* *of* *this* *was* *the* *fan* *she* *was* *holding* *,* *and* *she* *dropped* *it* *hastily* *,* *just* *in* *time* *to* *avoid* *shrinking* *away* *altogether* *.*
*'* *That* *was* *a* *narrow* *escape* *!* *'* *said* *Alice* *,* *a* *good* *deal* *frightened* *at* *the* *sudden* *change* *,* *but* *very* *glad* *to* *find* *herself* *still* *in* *existence* *;* *'* *and* *now* *for* *the* *garden* *!* *'* *and* *she* *ran* *with* *all* *speed* *back* *to* *the* *little* *door* *:* *but* *,* *alas* *!* *the* *little* *door* *was* *shut* *again* *,* *and* *the* *little* *golden* *key* *was* *lying* *on* *the* *glass* *table* *as* *before* *,* *'* *and* *things* *are* *worse* *than* *ever* *,* *'* *thought* *the* *poor* *child* *,* *'* *for* *I* *never* *was* *so* *small* *as* *this* *before* *,* *never* *!*
*The* *first* *question* *of* *course* *was* *,* *how* *to* *get* *dry* *again* *:* *they* *had* *a* *consultation* *about* *this* *,* *and* *after* *a* *few* *minutes* *it* *seemed* *quite* *natural* *to* *Alice* *to* *find* *herself* *talking* *familiarly* *with* *them* *,* *as* *if* *she* *had* *known* *them* *all* *her* *life* *.*
*There* *was* *exactly* *one* *a-piece* *all* *round* *.* *'* *But* *she* *must* *have* *a* *prize* *herself* *,* *you* *know* *,* *'* *said* *the* *Mouse* *.*
*'* *A* *knot* *!* *'* *said* *Alice* *,* *always* *ready* *to* *make* *herself* *useful* *,* *and* *looking* *anxiously* *about* *her* *.*
*Some* *of* *the* *birds* *hurried* *off* *at* *once* *:* *one* *old* *Magpie* *began* *wrapping* *itself* *up* *very* *carefully* *,* *remarking* *,* *'* *I* *really* *must* *be* *getting* *home* *;* *the* *night-air* *does* *n't* *suit* *my* *throat* *!* *'* *and* *a* *Canary* *called* *out* *in* *a* *trembling* *voice* *to* *its* *children* *,* *'* *Come* *away* *,* *my* *dears* *!* *It* *'s* *high* *time* *you* *were* *all* *in* *bed* *!* *'*
*Oh* *,* *I* *should* *n't* *like* *that* *!* *"* *Oh* *,* *you* *foolish* *Alice* *!* *'* *she* *answered* *herself* *.* *'* *How* *can* *you* *learn* *lessons* *in* *here* *?*
*They* *all* *made* *a* *rush* *at* *Alice* *the* *moment* *she* *appeared* *;* *but* *she* *ran* *off* *as* *hard* *as* *she* *could* *,* *and* *soon* *found* *herself* *safe* *in* *a* *thick* *wood* *.*
*Hardly* *knowing* *what* *she* *did* *,* *she* *picked* *up* *a* *little* *bit* *of* *stick* *,* *and* *held* *it* *out* *to* *the* *puppy* *;* *whereupon* *the* *puppy* *jumped* *into* *the* *air* *off* *all* *its* *feet* *at* *once* *,* *with* *a* *yelp* *of* *delight* *,* *and* *rushed* *at* *the* *stick* *,* *and* *made* *believe* *to* *worry* *it* *;* *then* *Alice* *dodged* *behind* *a* *great* *thistle* *,* *to* *keep* *herself* *from* *being* *run* *over* *;* *and* *the* *moment* *she* *appeared* *on* *the* *other* *side* *,* *the* *puppy* *made* *another* *rush* *at* *the* *stick* *,* *and* *tumbled* *head* *over* *heels* *in* *its* *hurry* *to* *get* *hold* *of* *it* *;* *then* *Alice* *,* *thinking* *it* *was* *very* *like* *having* *a* *game* *of* *play* *with* *a* *cart-horse* *,* *and* *expecting* *every* *moment* *to* *be* *trampled* *under* *its* *feet* *,* *ran* *round* *the* *thistle* *again* *;* *then* *the* *puppy* *began* *a* *series* *of* *short* *charges* *at* *the* *stick* *,* *running* *a* *very* *little* *way* *forwards* *each* *time* *and* *a* *long* *way* *back* *,* *and* *barking* *hoarsely* *all* *the* *while* *,* *till* *at* *last* *it* *sat* *down* *a* *good* *way* *off* *,* *panting* , with *its* *tongue* *hanging* *out* *of* *its* *mouth* *,* *and* its *great* *eyes* *half* *shut* *.*
*'* *And* *yet* *what* *a* *dear* *little* *puppy* *it* *was* *!* *'* *said* *Alice* *,* *as* *she* *leant* *against* *a* *buttercup* *to* *rest* *herself* *,* *and* *fanned* *herself* *with* *one* *of* *the* *leaves* *:* *'* *I* *should* *have* *liked* *teaching* *it* *tricks* *very* *much* *,* *if* *--* *if* *I* *'d* *only* *been* *the* *right* *size* *to* *do* *it* *!*
*She* *stretched* *herself* *up* *on* *tiptoe* *,* *and* *peeped* *over* *the* *edge* *of* *the* *mushroom* *,* *and* *her* *eyes* *immediately* *met* *those* *of* *a* *large* *caterpillar* *,* *that* *was* *sitting* *on* *the* *top* *with* *its* *arms* *folded* *,* *quietly* *smoking* *a* *long* *hookah* *,* *and* *taking* *not* *the* *smallest* *notice* *of* *her* *or* *of* *anything* *else* *.*
*'* *What* *do* *you* *mean* *by* *that* *?* *'* *said* *the* *Caterpillar* *sternly* *.* *'* *Explain* *yourself* *!* *'*
*'* *I* *ca* *n't* *explain* *myself* *,* *I* *'m* *afraid* *,* *sir* *'* *said* *Alice* *,* *'* *because* *I* *'m* *not* *myself* *,* *you* *see* *.* *'*
*Alice* *felt* *a* *little* *irritated* *at* *the* *Caterpillar* *'s* *making* *such* *very* *short* *remarks* *,* *and* *she* *drew* *herself* *up* *and* *said* *,* *very* *gravely* *,* *'* *I* *think* *,* *you* *ought* *to* *tell* *me* *who* *you* *are* *,* *first* *.* *'*
*'* *I* *have* *answered* *three* *questions* *,* *and* *that* *is* *enough* *,* *'* *Said* *his* *father* *;* *'* *do* *n't* *give* *yourself* *airs* *!* *Do* *you* *think* *I* *can* *listen* *all* *day* *to* *such* *stuff* *?*
*'* *It* *is* *a* *very* *good* *height* *indeed* *!* *'* *said* *the* *Caterpillar* *angrily* *,* *rearing* *itself* *upright* *as* *it* *spoke* *(* *it* *was* *exactly* *three* *inches* *high* *)* *.*
*In* *a* *minute* *or* *two* *the* *Caterpillar* *took* *the* *hookah* *out* *of* *its* *mouth* *and* *yawned* *once* *or* *twice* *,* *and* *shook* *itself* *.*
*After* *a* *while* *she* *remembered* *that* *she* *still* *held* *the* *pieces* *of* *mushroom* *in* *her* *hands* *,* *and* *she* *set* *to* *work* *very* *carefully* *,* *nibbling* *first* *at* *one* *and* *then* *at* *the* *other* *,* *and* *growing* *sometimes* *taller* *and* *sometimes* *shorter* *,* *until* *she* *had* *succeeded* *in* *bringing* *herself* *down* *to* *her* *usual* *height* *.*
*'* *Whoever* *lives* *there* *,* *'* *thought* *Alice* *,* *'* *it* *'ll* *never* *do* *to* *come* *upon* *them* *this* *size* *:* *why* *,* *I* *should* *frighten* *them* *out* *of* *their* *wits* *!* *'* *So* *she* *began* *nibbling* *at* *the* *righthand* *bit* *again* *,* *and* *did* *not* *venture* *to* *go* *near* *the* *house* *till* *she* *had* *brought* *herself* *down* *to* *nine* *inches* *high* *.*
*The* *poor* *little* *thing* *was* *snorting* *like* *a* *steam-engine* *when* *she* *caught* *it* *,* *and* *kept* *doubling* *itself* *up* *and* *straightening* *itself* *out* *again* *,* *so* *that* *altogether* *,* *for* *the* *first* *minute* *or* *two* *,* *it* *was* *as* *much* *as* *she* *could* *do* *to* *hold* *it* *.*
*As* *soon* *as* *she* *had* *made* *out* *the* *proper* *way* *of* *nursing* *it* *,* *(* *which* *was* *to* *twist* *it* *up* *into* *a* *sort* *of* *knot* *,* *and* *then* *keep* *tight* *hold* *of* *its* *right* *ear* *and* *left* *foot* *,* *so* *as* *to* *prevent* *its* *undoing* *itself* *,* *)* *she* *carried* *it* *out* *into* *the* *open* *air* *.* *'* *If* *I* *do* *n't* *take* *this* *child* *away* *with* *me* *,* *'* *thought* *Alice* *,* *'* *they* *'re* *sure* *to* *kill* *it* *in* *a* *day* *or* *two* *:* *would* *n't* *it* *be* *murder* *to* *leave* *it* *behind* *?* *'*
*It* *was* *so* *large* *a* *house* *,* *that* *she* *did* *not* *like* *to* *go* *nearer* *till* *she* *had* *nibbled* *some* *more* *of* *the* *lefthand* *bit* *of* *mushroom* *,* *and* *raised* *herself* *to* *about* *two* *feet* *high* *:* *even* *then* *she* *walked* *up* *towards* *it* *rather* *timidly* *,* *saying* *to* *herself* *'* *Suppose* *it* *should* *be* *raving* *mad* *after* *all* *!*
*The* *Dormouse* *shook* *its* *head* *impatiently* *,* *and* *said* *,* *without* *opening* *its* *eyes* *,* *'* *Of* *course* *,* *of* *course* *;* *just* *what* *I* *was* *going* *to* *remark* *myself* *.* *'*
*Here* *the* *Dormouse* *shook* *itself* *,* *and* *began* *singing* *in* *its* *sleep* *'* *Twinkle* *,* *twinkle* *,* *twinkle* *,* *twinkle* *--* *'* *and* *went* *on* *so* *long* *that* *they* *had* *to* *pinch* *it* *to* *make* *it* *stop* *.*
*Alice* *did* *not* *quite* *know* *what* *to* *say* *to* *this* *:* *so* *she* *helped* *herself* *to* *some* *tea* *and* *bread-and-butter* *,* *and* *then* *turned* *to* *the* *Dormouse* *,* *and* *repeated* *her* *question* *.* *'* *Why* *did* *they* *live* *at* *the* *bottom* *of* *a* *well* *?* *'*
*Once* *more* *she* *found* *herself* *in* *the* *long* *hall* *,* *and* *close* *to* *the* *little* *glass* *table* *.* *'* *Now* *,* *I* *'ll* *manage* *better* *this* *time* *,* *'* *she* *said* *to* *herself* *,* *and* *began* *by* *taking* *the* *little* *golden* *key* *,* *and* *unlocking* *the* *door* *that* *led* *into* *the* *garden* *.*
*Then* *she* *went* *to* *work* *nibbling* *at* *the* *mushroom* *(* *she* *had* *kept* *a* *piece* *of* *it* *in* *her* *pocket* *)* *till* *she* *was* *about* *a* *foot* *high* *:* *then* *she* *walked* *down* *the* *little* *passage* *:* *and* *then* *--* *she* *found* *herself* *at* *last* *in* *the* *beautiful* *garden* *,* *among* *the* *bright* *flower-beds* *and* *the* *cool* *fountains* *.*
*Seven* *flung* *down* *his* *brush* *,* *and* *had* *just* *begun* *'* *Well* *,* *of* *all* *the* *unjust* *things* *--* *'* *when* *his* *eye* *chanced* *to* *fall* *upon* *Alice* *,* *as* *she* *stood* *watching* *them* *,* *and* *he* *checked* *himself* *suddenly* *:* *the* *others* *looked* *round* *also* *,* *and* *all* *of* *them* *bowed* *low* *.*
*So* *you* *see* *,* *Miss* *,* *we* *'re* *doing* *our* *best* *,* *afore* *she* *comes* *,* *to* *--* *'* *At* *this* *moment* *Five* *,* *who* *had* *been* *anxiously* *looking* *across* *the* *garden* *,* *called* *out* *'* *The* *Queen* *!* *The* *Queen* *!* *'* *and* *the* *three* *gardeners* *instantly* *threw* *themselves* *flat* *upon* *their* *faces* *.*
*He* *looked* *anxiously* *over* *his* *shoulder* *as* *he* *spoke* *,* *and* *then* *raised* *himself* *upon* *tiptoe* *,* *put* *his* *mouth* *close* *to* *her* *ear* *,* *and* *whispered* *'* *She* *'s* *under* *sentence* *of* *execution* *.* *'*
*Alice* *thought* *she* *had* *never* *seen* *such* *a* *curious* *croquet-ground* *in* *her* *life* *;* *it* *was* *all* *ridges* *and* *furrows* *;* *the* *balls* *were* *live* *hedgehogs* *,* *the* *mallets* *live* *flamingoes* *,* *and* *the* *soldiers* *had* *to* *double* *themselves* *up* *and* *to* *stand* *on* *their* *hands* *and* *feet* *,* *to* *make* *the* *arches* *.*
*The* *chief* *difficulty* *Alice* *found* *at* *first* *was* *in* *managing* *her* *flamingo* *:* *she* *succeeded* *in* *getting* *its* *body* *tucked* *away* *,* *comfortably* *enough* *,* *under* *her* *arm* *,* *with* *its* *legs* *hanging* *down* *,* *but* *generally* *,* *just* *as* *she* *had* *got* *its* *neck* *nicely* *straightened* *out* *,* *and* *was* *going* *to* *give* *the* *hedgehog* *a* *blow* *with* *its* *head* *,* *it* *would* *twist* *itself* *round* *and* *look* *up* *in* *her* *face* *,* *with* *such* *a* *puzzled* *expression* *that* *she* *could* *not* *help* *bursting* *out* *laughing* *:* *and* *when* *she* *had* *got* *its* *head* *down* *,* *and* *was* *going* *to* *begin* *again* *,* *it* *was* *very* *provoking* *to* *find* *that* *the* *hedgehog* *had* *unrolled* *itself* *,* *and* *was* *in* *the* *act* *of* *crawling* *away* *:* *besides* *all* *this* *,* *there* *was* *generally* *a* *ridge* *or* *furrow* *in* *the* *way* *wherever* *she* *wanted* *to* *send* *the* *hedgehog* *to* *,* *and* *,* *as* *the* *doubled-up* *soldiers* *were* *always* *getting* *up* *and* *walking* *off* *to* *other* *parts* *of* *the* *ground* *,* *Alice* *soon* *came* *to* *the* *conclusion* *that* *it* *was* *a* *very* *difficult* *game* *indeed* *.*
*'* *I* *do* *n't* *think* *they* *play* *at* *all* *fairly* *,* *'* *Alice* *began* *,* *in* *rather* *a* *complaining* *tone* *,* *'* *and* *they* *all* *quarrel* *so* *dreadfully* *one* *ca* *n't* *hear* *oneself* *speak* *--* *and* *they* *do* *n't* *seem* *to* *have* *any* *rules* *in* *particular* *;* *at* *least* *,* *if* *there* *are* *,* *nobody* *attends* *to* *them* *--* *and* *you* *'ve* *no* *idea* *how* *confusing* *it* *is* *all* *the* *things* *being* *alive* *;* *for* *instance* *,* *there* *'s* *the* *arch* *I* *'ve* *got* *to* *go* *through* *next* *walking* *about* *at* *the* *other* *end* *of* *the* *ground* *--* *and* *I* *should* *have* *croqueted* *the* *Queen* *'s* *hedgehog* *just* *now* *,* *only* *it* *ran* *away* *when* *it* *saw* *mine* *coming* *!* *'*
*'* *Everything* *'s* *got* *a* *moral* *,* *if* *only* *you* *can* *find* *it* *.* *'* *And* *she* *squeezed* *herself* *up* *closer* *to* *Alice* *'s* *side* *as* *she* *spoke* *.*
*'* *I* *quite* *agree* *with* *you* *,* *'* *said* *the* *Duchess* *;* *'* *and* *the* *moral* *of* *that* *is* *--* *``* *Be* *what* *you* *would* *seem* *to* *be* *''* *--* *or* *if* *you* *'d* *like* *it* *put* *more* *simply* *--* *``* *Never* *imagine* *yourself* *not* *to* *be* *otherwise* *than* *what* *it* *might* *appear* *to* *others* *that* *what* *you* *were* *or* *might* *have* *been* *was* *not* *otherwise* *than* *what* *you* *had* *been* *would* *have* *appeared* *to* *them* *to* *be* *otherwise* *.* *''* *'*
*'* *Pray* *do* *n't* *trouble* *yourself* *to* *say* *it* *any* *longer* *than* *that* *,* *'* *said* *Alice* *.*
*'* *You* *may* *not* *have* *lived* *much* *under* *the* *sea* *--* *'* *(* *'* *I* *have* *n't* *,* *'* *said* *Alice* *)* *--* *'* *and* *perhaps* *you* *were* *never* *even* *introduced* *to* *a* *lobster* *--* *'* *(* *Alice* *began* *to* *say* *'* *I* *once* *tasted* *--* *'* *but* *checked* *herself* *hastily* *,* *and* *said* *'* *No* *,* *never* *'* *)*
*'* *Yes* *,* *'* *said* *Alice* *,* *'* *I* *'ve* *often* *seen* *them* *at* *dinn* *--* *'* *she* *checked* *herself* *hastily* *.*
*At* *this* *the* *whole* *pack* *rose* *up* *into* *the* *air* *,* *and* *came* *flying* *down* *upon* *her* *:* *she* *gave* *a* *little* *scream* *,* *half* *of* *fright* *and* *half* *of* *anger* *,* *and* *tried* *to* *beat* *them* *off* *,* *and* *found* *herself* *lying* *on* *the* *bank* *,* *with* *her* *head* *in* *the* *lap* *of* *her* *sister* *,* *who* *was* *gently* *brushing* *away* *some* *dead* *leaves* *that* *had* *fluttered* *down* *from* *the* *trees* *upon* *her* *face* *.*
*So* *she* *sat* *on* *,* *with* *closed* *eyes* *,* *and* *half* *believed* *herself* *in* *Wonderland* *,* *though* *she* *knew* *she* *had* *but* *to* *open* *them* *again* *,* *and* *all* *would* *change* *to* *dull* *reality* *--* *the* *grass* *would* *be* *only* *rustling* *in* *the* *wind* *,* *and* *the* *pool* *rippling* *to* *the* *waving* *of* *the* *reeds* *--* *the* *rattling* *teacups* *would* *change* *to* *tinkling* *sheep-bells* *,* *and* *the* *Queen* *'s* *shrill* *cries* *to* *the* *voice* *of* *the* *shepherd* *boy* *--* *and* *the* *sneeze* *of* *the* *baby* *,* *the* *shriek* *of* *the* *Gryphon* *,* *and* *all* *the* *other* *queer* *noises* *,* *would* *change* *(* *she* *knew* *)* *to* *the* *confused* *clamour* *of* *the* *busy* *farm-yard* *--* *while* *the* *lowing* *of* *the* *cattle* *in* *the* *distance* *would* *take* *the* *place* *of* *the* *Mock* *Turtle* *'s* *heavy* *sobs* *.*
*For* *two* *hundred* *francs* *a* *year* *he* *managed* *to* *live* *on* *the* *border* *of* *the* *provinces* *of* *Caux* *and* *Picardy* *,* *in* *a* *kind* *of* *place* *half* *farm* *,* *half* *private* *house* *;* *and* *here* *,* *soured* *,* *eaten* *up* *with* *regrets* *,* *cursing* *his* *luck* *,* *jealous* *of* *everyone* *,* *he* *shut* *himself* *up* *at* *the* *age* *of* *forty-five* *,* *sick* *of* *men* *,* *he* *said* *,* *and* *determined* *to* *live* *at* *peace* *.*
*She* *called* *on* *the* *lawyers* *,* *the* *president* *,* *remembered* *when* *bills* *fell* *due* *,* *got* *them* *renewed* *,* *and* *at* *home* *ironed* *,* *sewed* *,* *washed* *,* *looked* *after* *the* *workmen* *,* *paid* *the* *accounts* *,* *while* *he* *,* *troubling* *himself* *about* *nothing* *,* *eternally* *besotted* *in* *sleepy* *sulkiness* *,* *whence* *he* *only* *roused* *himself* *to* *say* *disagreeable* *things* *to* *her* *,* *sat* *smoking* *by* *the* *fire* *and* *spitting* *into* *the* *cinders* *.*
*To* *shut* *himself* *up* *every* *evening* *in* *the* *dirty* *public* *room* *,* *to* *push* *about* *on* *marble* *tables* *the* *small* *sheep* *bones* *with* *black* *dots* *,* *seemed* *to* *him* *a* *fine* *proof* *of* *his* *freedom* *,* *which* *raised* *him* *in* *his* *own* *esteem* *.*
*Still* *sleepy* *from* *the* *warmth* *of* *his* *bed* *,* *he* *let* *himself* *be* *lulled* *by* *the* *quiet* *trot* *of* *his* *horse* *.*
*By* *his* *side* *on* *a* *chair* *stood* *a* *large* *decanter* *of* *brandy* *,* *whence* *he* *poured* *himself* *a* *little* *from* *time* *to* *time* *to* *keep* *up* *his* *spirits* *;* *but* *as* *soon* *as* *he* *caught* *sight* *of* *the* *doctor* *his* *elation* *subsided* *,* *and* *instead* *of* *swearing* *,* *as* *he* *had* *been* *doing* *for* *the* *last* *twelve* *hours* *,* *began* *to* *groan* *freely* *.*
*She* *drew* *herself* *up* *,* *scarlet* *,* *and* *looked* *at* *him* *over* *her* *shoulder* *as* *she* *handed* *him* *his* *whip* *.*
*As* *to* *Charles* *,* *he* *did* *not* *stop* *to* *ask* *himself* *why* *it* *was* *a* *pleasure* *to* *him* *to* *go* *to* *the* *Bertaux* *.* *Had* *he* *done* *so* *,* *he* *would* *,* *no* *doubt* *,* *have* *attributed* *his* *zeal* *to* *the* *importance* *of* *the* *case* *,* *or* *perhaps* *to* *the* *money* *he* *hoped* *to* *make* *by* *it* *.* *Was* *it* *for* *this* *,* *however* *,* *that* *his* *visits* *to* *the* *farm* *formed* *a* *delightful* *exception* *to* *the* *meagre* *occupations* *of* *his* *life* *?* *On* *these* *days* *he* *rose* *early* *,* *set* *off* *at* *a* *gallop* *,* *urging* *on* *his* *horse* *,* *then* *got* *down* *to* *wipe* *his* *boots* *in* *the* *grass* *and* *put* *on* *black* *gloves* *before* *entering* *.* *He* *liked* *going* *into* *the* *courtyard* *,* *and* *noticing* *the* *gate* *turn* *against* *his* *shoulder* *,* *the* *cock* *crow* *on* *the* *wall* *,* *the* *lads* *run* *to* *meet* *him* *.* *He* *liked* *the* *granary* *and* *the* *stables* *;* *he* *liked* *old* *Rouault* *,* *who* *pressed* *his* *hand* *and* *called* *him* *his* *saviour* *;* *he* *like* *the* *small* *wooden* *shoes* *of* *Mademoiselle* *Emma* *on* *the* *scoured* *flags* *of* *the* *kitchen* *-* *her* *high* *heels* *made* *her* *a* *little* *taller* *;* *and* *when* *she* *walked* *in* *front* *of* *him* *,* *the* *wooden* *soles* *springing* *up* *quickly* *struck* with *a* *sharp* *sound* *against* *the* *leather* *of* *her* *boots* *.*
*At* *first* *she* *solaced* *herself* *by* *allusions* *that* *Charles* *did* *not* *understand* *,* *then* *by* *casual* *observations* *that* *he* *let* *pass* *for* *fear* *of* *a* *storm* *,* *finally* *by* *open* *apostrophes* *to* *which* *he* *knew* *not* *what* *to* *answer* *.*
*It* *is* *not* *worth* *while* *making* *such* *a* *fuss* *,* *or* *showing* *herself* *at* *church* *on* *Sundays* *in* *a* *silk* *gown* *like* *a* *countess* *.*
*``* *I* *know* *what* *it* *is* *,* *''* *said* *he* *,* *clapping* *him* *on* *the* *shoulder* *;* *``* *I* *'ve* *been* *through* *it* *.* *When* *I* *lost* *my* *dear* *departed* *,* *I* *went* *into* *the* *fields* *to* *be* *quite* *alone* *.* *I* *fell* *at* *the* *foot* *of* *a* *tree* *;* *I* *cried* *;* *I* *called* *on* *God* *;* *I* *talked* *nonsense* *to* *Him* *.* *I* *wanted* *to* *be* *like* *the* *moles* *that* *I* *saw* *on* *the* *branches* *,* *their* *insides* *swarming* *with* *worms* *,* *dead* *,* *and* *an* *end* *of* *it* *.* *And* *when* *I* *thought* *that* *there* *were* *others* *at* *that* *very* *moment* *with* *their* *nice* *little* *wives* *holding* *them* *in* *their* *embrace* *,* *I* *struck* *great* *blows* *on* *the* *earth* *with* *my* *stick* *.* *I* *was* *pretty* *well* *mad* *with* *not* *eating* *;* *the* *very* *idea* *of* *going* *to* *a* *cafe* *disgusted* *me* *-* *you* *would* *n't* *believe* *it* *.* *Well* *,* *quite* *softly* *,* *one* *day* *following* *another* *,* *a* *spring* *on* *a* *winter* *,* *and* *an* *autumn* *after* *a* *summer* *,* *this* *wore* *away* *,* *piece* *by* *piece* *,* *crumb* *by* *crumb* *;* *it* *passed* *away* *,* *it* *is* *gone* *,* *I* *should* *say* *it* *has* *sunk* *;* *for* *something* *always* *remains* *at* *the* *bottom* *as* *one* *would* *say* *-* *a* *weight* *here* *,* *at* *one* *'s* *heart* *.* *But* *since* *it* is *the* *lot* *of* *all* *of* *us* *,* *one* *must* *not* *give* *way* *altogether* *,* *and* , *because* *others* *have* *died* *,* *want* *to* *die* *too* *.* You *must* *pull* *yourself* together , *Monsieur* *Bovary* *.* *It* *will* *pass* *away* *.* *Come* *to* *see* *us* *;* *my* *daughter* *thinks* *of* *you* now and again , do *you* *know* , and *she* *says* you *are* *forgetting* *her* . Spring will soon *be* *here* . We *'ll* *have* *some* *rabbit-shooting* in *the* *warrens* *to* *amuse* *you* *a* *bit* . ''
*Charles* *found* *himself* *laughing* *,* *but* *the* *remembrance* *of* *his* *wife* *suddenly* *coming* *back* *to* *him* *depressed* *him* *.*
*He* *could* *now* *change* *his* *meal-times* *,* *go* *in* *or* *out* *without* *explanation* *,* *and* *when* *he* *was* *very* *tired* *stretch* *himself* *at* *full* *length* *on* *his* *bed* *.*
*So* *he* *nursed* *and* *coddled* *himself* *and* *accepted* *the* *consolations* *that* *were* *offered* *him* *.*
*He* *had* *an* *aimless* *hope* *,* *and* *was* *vaguely* *happy* *;* *he* *thought* *himself* *better* *looking* *as* *he* *brushed* *his* *whiskers* *before* *the* *looking-glass* *.*
*Some* *flies* *on* *the* *table* *were* *crawling* *up* *the* *glasses* *that* *had* *been* *used* *,* *and* *buzzing* *as* *they* *drowned* *themselves* *in* *the* *dregs* *of* *the* *cider* *.*
*But* *he* *never* *saw* *her* *in* *his* *thoughts* *other* *than* *he* *had* *seen* *her* *the* *first* *time* *,* *or* *as* *he* *had* *just* *left* *her* *.* *Then* *he* *asked* *himself* *what* *would* *become* *of* *her* *-* *if* *she* *would* *be* *married* *,* *and* *to* *whom* *!*
*Thinking* *that* *,* *after* *all* *,* *he* *should* *lose* *nothing* *,* *Charles* *promised* *himself* *to* *ask* *her* *in* *marriage* *as* *soon* *as* *occasion* *offered* *,* *but* *each* *time* *such* *occasion* *did* *offer* *the* *fear* *of* *not* *finding* *the* *right* *words* *sealed* *his* *lips* *.*
*Charles* *gave* *himself* *as* *far* *as* *to* *the* *corner* *of* *the* *hedge* *,* *and* *at* *last* *,* *when* *past* *it* *-*
*Emma* *blushed* *as* *he* *entered* *,* *and* *she* *gave* *a* *little* *forced* *laugh* *to* *keep* *herself* *in* *countenance* *.*
*Part* *of* *it* *was* *ordered* *at* *Rouen* *,* *and* *she* *made* *herself* *chemises* *and* *nightcaps* *after* *fashion-plates* *that* *she* *borrowed* *.*
*Then* *came* *the* *married* *pair* *,* *the* *relations* *,* *the* *friends* *,* *all* *following* *pell-mell* *;* *the* *children* *stayed* *behind* *amusing* *themselves* *plucking* *the* *bell-flowers* *from* *oat-ears* *,* *or* *playing* *amongst* *themselves* *unseen* *.*
*To* *begin* *with* *,* *at* *its* *base* *there* *was* *a* *square* *of* *blue* *cardboard* *,* *representing* *a* *temple* *with* *porticoes* *,* *colonnades* *,* *and* *stucco* *statuettes* *all* *round* *,* *and* *in* *the* *niches* *constellations* *of* *gilt* *paper* *stars* *;* *then* *on* *the* *second* *stage* *was* *a* *dungeon* *of* *Savoy* *cake* *,* *surrounded* *by* *many* *fortifications* *in* *candied* *angelica* *,* *almonds* *,* *raisins* *,* *and* *quarters* *of* *oranges* *;* *and* *finally* *,* *on* *the* *upper* *platform* *a* *green* *field* *with* *rocks* *set* *in* *lakes* *of* *jam* *,* *nutshell* *boats* *,* *and* *a* *small* *Cupid* *balancing* *himself* *in* *a* *chocolate* *swing* *whose* *two* *uprights* *ended* *in* *real* *roses* *for* *balls* *at* *the* *top* *.*
*In* *his* *heart* *he* *accused* *old* *Rouault* *of* *being* *proud* *,* *and* *he* *joined* *four* *or* *five* *other* *guests* *in* *a* *corner* *,* *who* *having* *,* *through* *mere* *chance* *,* *been* *several* *times* *running* *served* *with* *the* *worst* *helps* *of* *meat* *,* *also* *were* *of* *opinion* *they* *had* *been* *badly* *used* *,* *and* *were* *whispering* *about* *their* *host* *,* *and* *with* *covered* *hints* *hoping* *he* *would* *ruin* *himself* *.*
*Old* *Rouault* *had* *them* *driven* *back* *in* *his* *cart* *,* *and* *himself* *accompanied* *them* *as* *far* *as* *Vassonville* *.* *Here* *he* *embraced* *his* *daughter* *for* *the* *last* *time* *,* *got* *down* *,* *and* *went* *his* *way* *.*
*The* *old* *servant* *presented* *herself* *,* *curtsied* *to* *her* *,* *apologised* *for* *not* *having* *dinner* *ready* *,* *and* *suggested* *that* *madame* *,* *in* *the* *meantime* *,* *should* *look* *over* *her* *house* *.*
*During* *the* *first* *days* *she* *occupied* *herself* *in* *thinking* *about* *changes* *in* *the* *house* *.*
*His* *own* *eyes* *lost* *themselves* *in* *these* *depths* *;* *he* *saw* *himself* *in* *miniature* *down* *to* *the* *shoulders* *,* *with* *his* *handkerchief* *round* *his* *head* *and* *the* *top* *of* *his* *shirt* *open* *.*
*For* *him* *the* *universe* *did* *not* *extend* *beyond* *the* *circumference* *of* *her* *petticoat* *,* *and* *he* *reproached* *himself* *with* *not* *loving* *her* *.*
*Before* *marriage* *she* *thought* *herself* *in* *love* *;* *but* *the* *happiness* *that* *should* *have* *followed* *this* *love* *not* *having* *come* *,* *she* *must* *,* *she* *thought* *,* *have* *been* *mistaken* *.*
*When* *she* *was* *thirteen* *,* *her* *father* *himself* *took* *her* *to* *town* *to* *place* *her* *in* *the* *convent* *.*
*She* *told* *stories* *,* *gave* *them* *news* *,* *went* *errands* *in* *the* *town* *,* *and* *on* *the* *sly* *lent* *the* *big* *girls* *some* *novel* *,* *that* *she* *always* *carried* *in* *the* *pockets* *of* *her* *apron* *,* *and* *of* *which* *the* *good* *lady* *herself* *swallowed* *long* *chapters* *in* *the* *intervals* *of* *her* *work* *.*
*She* *let* *herself* *glide* *along* *with* *Lamartine* *meanderings* *,* *listened* *to* *harps* *on* *lakes* *,* *to* *all* *the* *songs* *of* *dying* *swans* *,* *to* *the* *falling* *of* *the* *leaves* *,* *the* *pure* *virgins* *ascending* *to* *heaven* *,* *and* *the* *voice* *of* *the* *Eternal* *discoursing* *down* *the* *valleys* *.* *She* *wearied* *of* *it* *,* *would* *not* *confess* *it* *,* *continued* *from* *habit* *,* *and* *at* *last* *was* *surprised* *to* *feel* *herself* *soothed* *,* *and* *with* *no* *more* *sadness* *at* *heart* *than* *wrinkles* *on* *her* *brow* *.*
*And* *yet* *,* *in* *accord* *with* *theories* *she* *believed* *right* *,* *she* *wanted* *to* *make* *herself* *in* *love* *with* *him* *.*
*By* *moonlight* *in* *the* *garden* *she* *recited* *all* *the* *passionate* *rhymes* *she* *knew* *by* *heart* *,* *and* *,* *sighing* *,* *sang* *to* *him* *many* *melancholy* *adagios* *;* *but* *she* *found* *herself* *as* *calm* *after* *as* *before* *,* *and* *Charles* *seemed* *no* *more* *amorous* *and* *no* *more* *moved* *.*
*When* *she* *had* *thus* *for* *a* *while* *struck* *the* *flint* *on* *her* *heart* *without* *getting* *a* *spark* *,* *incapable* *,* *moreover* *,* *of* *understanding* *what* *she* *did* *not* *experience* *as* *of* *believing* *anything* *that* *did* *not* *present* *itself* *in* *conventional* *forms* *,* *she* *persuaded* *herself* *without* *difficulty* *that* *Charles* *'s* *passion* *was* *nothing* *very* *exorbitant* *.*
*She* *asked* *herself* *if* *by* *some* *other* *chance* *combination* *it* *would* *have* *not* *been* *possible* *to* *meet* *another* *man* *;* *and* *she* *tried* *to* *imagine* *what* *would* *have* *been* *these* *unrealised* *events* *,* *this* *different* *life* *,* *this* *unknown* *husband* *.*
*A* *fear* *took* *hold* *of* *her* *;* *she* *called* *Djali* *,* *and* *hurriedly* *returned* *to* *Tostes* *by* *the* *high* *road* *,* *threw* *herself* *into* *an* *armchair* *,* *and* *for* *the* *rest* *of* *the* *evening* *did* *not* *speak* *.*
*The* *Marquis* *opened* *the* *drawing* *room* *door* *;* *one* *of* *the* *ladies* *(* *the* *Marchioness* *herself* *)* *came* *to* *meet* *Emma* *.*
*Emma* *,* *on* *entering* *,* *felt* *herself* *wrapped* *round* *by* *the* *warm* *air* *,* *a* *blending* *of* *the* *perfume* *of* *flowers* *and* *of* *the* *fine* *linen* *,* *of* *the* *fumes* *of* *the* *viands* *,* *and* *the* *odour* *of* *the* *truffles* *.* *The* *silver* *dish* *covers* *reflected* *the* *lighted* *wax* *candles* *in* *the* *candelabra* *,* *the* *cut* *crystal* *covered* *with* *light* *steam* *reflected* *from* *one* *to* *the* *other* *pale* *rays* *;* *bouquets* *were* *placed* *in* *a* *row* *the* *whole* *length* *of* *the* *table* *;* *and* *in* *the* *large-bordered* *plates* *each* *napkin* *,* *arranged* *after* *the* *fashion* *of* *a* *bishop* *'s* *mitre* *,* *held* *between* *its* *two* *gaping* *folds* *a* *small* *oval* *shaped* *roll* *.* *The* *red* *claws* *of* *lobsters* *hung* *over* *the* *dishes* *;* *rich* *fruit* *in* *open* *baskets* *was* *piled* *up* *on* *moss* *;* *there* *were* *quails* *in* *their* *plumage* *;* *smoke* *was* *rising* *;* *and* *in* *silk* *stockings* *,* *knee-breeches* *,* *white* *cravat* *,* *and* *frilled* *shirt* *,* *the* *steward* *,* *grave* *as* *a* *judge* *,* *offering* *ready* *carved* *dishes* *between* *the* *shoulders* *of* *the* *guests* *,* *with* *a* *touch* *of* *the* *spoon* *gave* *you* *the* *piece* *chosen* *.* *On* *the* *large* *stove* *of* *porcelain* *inlaid* *with* *copper* *baguettes* *the* *statue* *of* *a* *woman* *,* *draped* *to* *the* *chin* *,* *gazed* *motionless* *on* *the* *room* *full* *of* *life* *.*
*She* *went* *downstairs* *restraining* *herself* *from* *running* *.*
*A* *few* *men* *(* *some* *fifteen* *or* *so* *)* *,* *of* *twenty-five* *to* *forty* *,* *scattered* *here* *and* *there* *among* *the* *dancers* *or* *talking* *at* *the* *doorways* *,* *distinguished* *themselves* *from* *the* *crowd* *by* *a* *certain* *air* *of* *breeding* *,* *whatever* *their* *differences* *in* *age* *,* *dress* *,* *or* *face* *.*
*She* *saw* *the* *farm* *again* *,* *the* *muddy* *pond* *,* *her* *father* *in* *a* *blouse* *under* *the* *apple* *trees* *,* *and* *she* *saw* *herself* *again* *as* *formerly* *,* *skimming* *with* *her* *finger* *the* *cream* *off* *the* *milk-pans* *in* *the* *dairy* *.*
*Charles* *dragged* *himself* *up* *by* *the* *balusters* *.*
*And* *she* *tried* *to* *keep* *herself* *awake* *in* *order* *to* *prolong* *the* *illusion* *of* *this* *luxurious* *life* *that* *she* *would* *soon* *have* *to* *give* *up* *.*
*``* *Leave* *the* *room* *!* *''* *said* *Emma* *.* *"* *You* *are* *forgetting* *yourself* *.*
*Then* *they* *warmed* *themselves* *in* *the* *kitchen* *while* *their* *room* *was* *being* *made* *ready* *.*
*``* *You* *'ll* *make* *yourself* *ill* *,* *''* *she* *said* *scornfully* *.*
*Emma* *perceived* *only* *two* *or* *three* *that* *hid* *from* *her* *all* *the* *rest* *,* *and* *in* *themselves* *represented* *all* *humanity* *.*
*She* *had* *bought* *herself* *a* *blotting* *book* *,* *writing* *case* *,* *pen-holder* *,* *and* *envelopes* *,* *although* *she* *had* *no* *one* *to* *write* *to* *;* *she* *dusted* *her* *what-not* *,* *looked* *at* *herself* *in* *the* *glass* *,* *picked* *up* *a* *book* *,* *and* *then* *,* *dreaming* *between* *the* *lines* *,* *let* *it* *drop* *on* *her* *knees* *.*
*But* *she* *was* *angered* *with* *shame* *;* *she* *felt* *a* *wild* *desire* *to* *strike* *him* *;* *she* *went* *to* *open* *the* *window* *in* *the* *passage* *and* *breathed* *in* *the* *fresh* *air* *to* *calm* *herself* *.*
*Since* *she* *could* *never* *,* *in* *a* *velvet* *gown* *with* *short* *sleeves* *,* *striking* *with* *her* *light* *fingers* *the* *ivory* *keys* *of* *an* *Erard* *at* *a* *concert* *,* *feel* *the* *murmur* *of* *ecstasy* *envelop* *her* *like* *a* *breeze* *,* *it* *was* *not* *worth* *while* *boring* *herself* *with* *practicing* *.*
*Charles* *was* *a* *slow* *eater* *;* *she* *played* *with* *a* *few* *nuts* *,* *or* *,* *leaning* *on* *her* *elbow* *,* *amused* *herself* *with* *drawing* *lines* *along* *the* *oilcloth* *table* *cover* *with* *the* *point* *of* *her* *knife* *.*
*Towards* *the* *end* *of* *February* *old* *Rouault* *,* *in* *memory* *of* *his* *cure* *,* *himself* *brought* *his* *son-in-law* *a* *superb* *turkey* *,* *and* *stayed* *three* *days* *at* *Tostes* *.*
*Moreover* *she* *no* *longer* *concealed* *her* *contempt* *for* *anything* *or* *anybody* *,* *and* *at* *times* *she* *set* *herself* *to* *express* *singular* *opinions* *,* *finding* *fault* *with* *that* *which* *others* *approved* *,* *and* *approving* *things* *perverse* *and* *immoral* *,* *all* *of* *which* *made* *her* *husband* *open* *his* *eyes* *widely* *.*
*Yonville-l* *'Abbaye* *(* *so* *called* *from* *an* *old* *Capuchin* *abbey* *of* *which* *not* *even* *the* *ruins* *remain* *)* *is* *a* *market-town* *twenty-four* *miles* *from* *Rouen* *,* *between* *the* *Abbeville* *and* *Beauvais* *roads* *,* *at* *the* *foot* *of* *a* *valley* *watered* *by* *the* *Rieule* *,* *a* *little* *river* *that* *runs* *into* *the* *Andelle* *after* *turning* *three* *water-mills* *near* *its* *mouth* *,* *where* *there* *are* *a* *few* *trout* *that* *the* *lads* *amuse* *themselves* *by* *fishing* *for* *on* *Sundays* *.*
*Clever* *at* *all* *games* *of* *cards* *,* *a* *good* *hunter* *,* *and* *writing* *a* *fine* *hand* *,* *he* *had* *at* *home* *a* *lathe* *,* *and* *amused* *himself* *by* *turning* *napkin* *rings* *,* *with* *which* *he* *filled* *up* *his* *house* *,* *with* *the* *jealousy* *of* *an* *artist* *and* *the* *egotism* *of* *a* *bourgeois* *.*
*And* *I* *ca* *n't* *admit* *of* *an* *old* *boy* *of* *a* *God* *who* *takes* *walks* *in* *his* *garden* *with* *a* *cane* *in* *his* *hand* *,* *who* *lodges* *his* *friends* *in* *the* *belly* *of* *whales* *,* *dies* *uttering* *a* *cry* *,* *and* *rises* *again* *at* *the* *end* *of* *three* *days* *;* *things* *absurd* *in* *themselves* *,* *and* *completely* *opposed* *,* *moreover* *,* *to* *all* *physical* *laws* *,* *which* *prove* *to* *us* *,* *by* *the* *way* *,* *that* *priests* *have* *always* *wallowed* *in* *turpid* *ignorance* *,* *in* *which* *they* *would* *fain* *engulf* *the* *people* *with* *them* *.* *"*
*He* *ceased* *,* *looking* *round* *for* *an* *audience* *,* *for* *in* *his* *bubbling* *over* *the* *chemist* *had* *for* *a* *moment* *fancied* *himself* *in* *the* *midst* *of* *the* *town* *council* *.*
*Homais* *introduced* *himself* *;* *he* *offered* *his* *homages* *to* *madame* *and* *his* *respects* *to* *monsieur* *;* *said* *he* *was* *charmed* *to* *have* *been* *able* *to* *render* *them* *some* *slight* *service* *,* *and* *added* *with* *a* *cordial* *air* *that* *he* *had* *ventured* *to* *invite* *himself* *,* *his* *wife* *being* *away* *.*
*``* *But* *,* *''* *Leon* *went* *on* *,* *addressing* *himself* *to* *Madame* *Bovary* *,* *``* *nothing* *,* *it* *seems* *to* *me* *,* *is* *more* *pleasant* *-* *when* *one* *can* *,* *''* *he* *added* *.*
*``* *Moreover* *,* *''* *said* *the* *druggist* *,* *``* *the* *practice* *of* *medicine* *is* *not* *very* *hard* *work* *in* *our* *part* *of* *the* *world* *,* *for* *the* *state* *of* *our* *roads* *allows* *us* *the* *use* *of* *gigs* *,* *and* *generally* *,* *as* *the* *farmers* *are* *prosperous* *,* *they* *pay* *pretty* *well* *.* *We* *have* *,* *medically* *speaking* *,* *besides* *the* *ordinary* *cases* *of* *enteritis* *,* *bronchitis* *,* *bilious* *affections* *,* *etc* *.* *,* *now* *and* *then* *a* *few* *intermittent* *fevers* *at* *harvest-time* *;* *but* *on* *the* *whole* *,* *little* *of* *a* *serious* *nature* *,* *nothing* *special* *to* *note* *,* *unless* *it* *be* *a* *great* *deal* *of* *scrofula* *,* *due* *,* *no* *doubt* *,* *to* *the* *deplorable* *hygienic* *conditions* *of* *our* *peasant* *dwellings* *.* *Ah* *!* *you* *will* *find* *many* *prejudices* *to* *combat* *,* *Monsieur* *Bovary* *,* *much* *obstinacy* *of* *routine* *,* *with* *which* *all* *the* *efforts* *of* *your* *science* *will* *daily* *come* *into* *collision* *;* *for* *people* *still* *have* *recourse* *to* *novenas* *,* *to* *relics* *,* *to* *the* *priest* *,* *rather* *than* *come* *straight* *to* *the* *doctor* *or* *the* *chemist* *.* *The* *climate* *,* *however* *,* *is* *not* *,* *truth* *to* *tell* *,* *bad* *,* *and* *we* *even* *have* *a* *few* *nonagenarians* *in* *our* *parish* *.* *The* *thermometer* *(* *I* *have* *made* *some* *observations* *)* *falls* *in* *winter* *to* *4* *degrees* *Centigrade* *at* *the* *outside* *,* *which* *gives* *us* *24* *degrees* *Reaumur* *as* *the* *maximum* *,* *or* *otherwise* *54* *degrees* *Fahrenheit* *(* *English* *scale* *)* *,* *not* *more* *.* *And* *,* *as* *a* *matter* *of* *fact* *,* we *are* *sheltered* *from* *the* *north* *winds* *by* *the* *forest* *of* *Argueil* *on* *the* *one* *side* *,* *from* *the* *west* *winds* by the *St.* *Jean* *range* *on* *the* *other* *;* *and* *this* *heat* *,* *moreover* , which , *on* *account* *of* the *aqueous* *vapours* *given* *off* *by* *the* *river* *and* *the* *considerable* *number* *of* *cattle* in *the* *fields* *,* which , as *you* *know* *,* *exhale* *much* *ammonia* *,* *that* *is* *to* *say* *,* nitrogen *,* *hydrogen* *and* *oxygen* ( no *,* *nitrogen* and *hydrogen* *alone* ) , and *which* *sucking* *up* *into* *itself* *the* *humus* from *the* *ground* , *mixing* *together* all those *different* *emanations* *,* *unites* *them* into *a* *stack* , so *to* *say* , *and* *combining* with *the* *electricity* *diffused* through *the* *atmosphere* , when *there* *is* any , might in the *long* *run* , as in *tropical* *countries* *,* engender *insalubrious* *miasmata* - *this* *heat* , *I* *say* *,* *finds* *itself* *perfectly* *tempered* on *the* *side* whence *it* *comes* *,* or *rather* *whence* it *should* *come* *-* *that* *is* *to* *say* *,* the *southern* *side* *-* by the *south-eastern* *winds* *,* which , *having* *cooled* *themselves* passing over *the* *Seine* *,* *reach* *us* *sometimes* *all* at once *like* *breezes* *from* *Russia* . ''
*``* *As* *I* *had* *the* *honour* *of* *putting* *it* *to* *your* *husband* *,* *''* *said* *the* *chemist* *,* *"* *with* *regard* *to* *this* *poor* *Yanoda* *who* *has* *run* *away* *,* *you* *will* *find* *yourself* *,* *thanks* *to* *his* *extravagance* *,* *in* *the* *possession* *of* *one* *of* *the* *most* *comfortable* *houses* *of* *Yonville* *.*
*Motionless* *we* *traverse* *countries* *we* *fancy* *we* *see* *,* *and* *your* *thought* *,* *blending* *with* *the* *fiction* *,* *playing* *with* *the* *details* *,* *follows* *the* *outline* *of* *the* *adventures* *.* *It* *mingles* *with* *the* *characters* *,* *and* *it* *seems* *as* *if* *it* *were* *yourself* *palpitating* *beneath* *their* *costumes* *.* *"*
*She* *did* *not* *believe* *that* *things* *could* *present* *themselves* *in* *the* *same* *way* *in* *different* *places* *,* *and* *since* *the* *portion* *of* *her* *life* *lived* *had* *been* *bad* *,* *no* *doubt* *that* *which* *remained* *to* *be* *lived* *would* *be* *better* *.*
*He* *gave* *Madame* *Bovary* *information* *as* *to* *the* *trades-people* *,* *sent* *expressly* *for* *his* *own* *cider* *merchant* *,* *tasted* *the* *drink* *himself* *,* *and* *saw* *that* *the* *casks* *were* *properly* *placed* *in* *the* *cellar* *;* *he* *explained* *how* *to* *set* *about* *getting* *in* *a* *supply* *of* *butter* *cheap* *,* *and* *made* *an* *arrangement* *with* *Lestiboudois* *,* *the* *sacristan* *,* *who* *,* *besides* *his* *sacerdotal* *and* *funeral* *functions* *,* *looked* *after* *the* *principal* *gardens* *at* *Yonville* *by* *the* *hour* *or* *the* *year* *,* *according* *to* *the* *taste* *of* *the* *customers* *.*
*Then* *for* *diversion* *he* *employed* *himself* *at* *home* *as* *a* *workman* *;* *he* *even* *tried* *to* *do* *up* *the* *attic* *with* *some* *paint* *which* *had* *been* *left* *behind* *by* *the* *painters* *.*
*It* *was* *another* *bond* *of* *the* *flesh* *establishing* *itself* *,* *and* *,* *as* *it* *were* *,* *a* *continued* *sentiment* *of* *a* *more* *complex* *union* *.*
*Thus* *she* *did* *not* *amuse* *herself* *with* *those* *preparations* *that* *stimulate* *the* *tenderness* *of* *mothers* *,* *and* *so* *her* *affection* *was* *from* *the* *very* *outset* *,* *perhaps* *,* *to* *some* *extent* *attenuated* *.*
*Whilst* *she* *was* *getting* *well* *she* *occupied* *herself* *much* *in* *seeking* *a* *name* *for* *her* *daughter* *.*
*That* *same* *evening* *this* *was* *known* *in* *Yonville* *,* *and* *Madame* *Tuvache* *,* *the* *mayor* *'s* *wife* *,* *declared* *in* *the* *presence* *of* *her* *servant* *that* *``* *Madame* *Bovary* *was* *compromising* *herself* *.* *''*
*She* *took* *it* *up* *in* *the* *wrapping* *that* *enveloped* *it* *and* *began* *singing* *softly* *as* *she* *rocked* *herself* *to* *and* *fro* *.*
*It* *flowed* *noiselessly* *,* *swift* *,* *and* *cold* *to* *the* *eye* *;* *long* *,* *thin* *grasses* *huddled* *together* *in* *it* *as* *the* *current* *drove* *them* *,* *and* *spread* *themselves* *upon* *the* *limpid* *water* *like* *streaming* *hair* *;* *sometimes* *at* *the* *tip* *of* *the* *reeds* *or* *on* *the* *leaf* *of* *a* *water-lily* *an* *insect* *with* *fine* *legs* *crawled* *or* *rested* *.*
*Yet* *their* *eyes* *were* *full* *of* *more* *serious* *speech* *,* *and* *while* *they* *forced* *themselves* *to* *find* *trivial* *phrases* *,* *they* *felt* *the* *same* *languor* *stealing* *over* *them* *both* *.*
*From* *her* *turned-up* *hair* *a* *dark* *colour* *fell* *over* *her* *back* *,* *and* *growing* *gradually* *paler* *,* *lost* *itself* *little* *by* *little* *in* *the* *shade* *.*
*Then* *the* *three* *hundred* *finished* *,* *they* *both* *stretched* *themselves* *out* *in* *front* *of* *the* *fire* *,* *and* *were* *soon* *asleep* *.*
*Monsieur* *Bovary* *,* *little* *given* *to* *jealousy* *,* *did* *not* *trouble* *himself* *about* *it* *.*
*He* *tortured* *himself* *to* *find* *out* *how* *he* *could* *make* *his* *declaration* *to* *her* *,* *and* *always* *halting* *between* *the* *fear* *of* *displeasing* *her* *and* *the* *shame* *of* *being* *such* *a* *coward* *,* *he* *wept* *with* *discouragement* *and* *desire* *.*
*As* *to* *Emma* *,* *she* *did* *not* *ask* *herself* *whether* *she* *loved* *.*
*``* *Wretched* *boy* *!* *''* *suddenly* *cried* *the* *chemist* *.* *And* *he* *ran* *to* *his* *son* *,* *who* *had* *just* *precipitated* *himself* *into* *a* *heap* *of* *lime* *in* *order* *to* *whiten* *his* *boots* *.*
*In* *the* *evening* *Madame* *Bovary* *did* *not* *go* *to* *her* *neighbour* *'s* *,* *and* *when* *Charles* *had* *left* *and* *she* *felt* *herself* *alone* *,* *the* *comparison* *re-began* *with* *the* *clearness* *of* *a* *sensation* *almost* *actual* *,* *and* *with* *that* *lengthening* *of* *perspective* *which* *memory* *gives* *to* *things* *.* *Looking* *from* *her* *bed* *at* *the* *clean* *fire* *that* *was* *burning* *,* *she* *still* *saw* *,* *as* *she* *had* *down* *there* *,* *Leon* *standing* *up* *with* *one* *hand* *behind* *his* *cane* *,* *and* *with* *the* *other* *holding* *Athalie* *,* *who* *was* *quietly* *sucking* *a* *piece* *of* *ice* *.* *She* *thought* *him* *charming* *;* *she* *could* *not* *tear* *herself* *away* *from* *him* *;* *she* *recalled* *his* *other* *attitudes* *on* *other* *days* *,* *the* *words* *he* *had* *spoken* *,* *the* *sound* *of* *his* *voice* *,* *his* *whole* *person* *;* *and* *she* *repeated* *,* *pouting* *out* *her* *lips* *as* *if* *for* *a* *kiss* *-*
*``* *Yes* *,* *charming* *!* *charming* *!* *Is* *he* *not* *in* *love* *?* *''* *she* *asked* *herself* *;* *"* *but* *with* *whom* *?*
*Polite* *to* *obsequiousness* *,* *he* *always* *held* *himself* *with* *his* *back* *bent* *in* *the* *position* *of* *one* *who* *bows* *or* *who* *invites* *.*
*``* *How* *have* *I* *displeased* *her* *?* *''* *he* *asked* *himself* *.*
*She* *was* *so* *sad* *and* *so* *calm* *,* *at* *once* *so* *gentle* *and* *so* *reserved* *,* *that* *near* *her* *one* *felt* *oneself* *seized* *by* *an* *icy* *charm* *,* *as* *we* *shudder* *in* *churches* *at* *the* *perfume* *of* *the* *flowers* *mingling* *with* *the* *cold* *of* *the* *marble* *.*
*She* *concerned* *herself* *about* *his* *comings* *and* *goings* *;* *she* *watched* *his* *face* *;* *she* *invented* *quite* *a* *history* *to* *find* *an* *excuse* *for* *going* *to* *his* *room* *.*
*Then* *the* *lusts* *of* *the* *flesh* *,* *the* *longing* *for* *money* *,* *and* *the* *melancholy* *of* *passion* *all* *blended* *themselves* *into* *one* *suffering* *,* *and* *instead* *of* *turning* *her* *thoughts* *from* *it* *,* *she* *clave* *to* *it* *the* *more* *,* *urging* *herself* *to* *pain* *,* *and* *seeking* *everywhere* *occasion* *for* *it* *.* *She* *was* *irritated* *by* *an* *ill-served* *dish* *or* *by* *a* *half-open* *door* *;* *bewailed* *the* *velvets* *she* *had* *not* *,* *the* *happiness* *she* *had* *missed* *,* *her* *too* *exalted* *dreams* *,* *her* *narrow* *home* *.*
*She* *would* *have* *liked* *Charles* *to* *beat* *her* *,* *that* *she* *might* *have* *a* *better* *right* *to* *hate* *him* *,* *to* *revenge* *herself* *upon* *him* *.*
*With* *this* *repeated* *tinkling* *the* *thoughts* *of* *the* *young* *woman* *lost* *themselves* *in* *old* *memories* *of* *her* *youth* *and* *school-days* *.*
*At* *mass* *on* *Sundays* *,* *when* *she* *looked* *up* *,* *she* *saw* *the* *gentle* *face* *of* *the* *Virgin* *amid* *the* *blue* *smoke* *of* *the* *rising* *incense* *.* *Then* *she* *was* *moved* *;* *she* *felt* *herself* *weak* *and* *quite* *deserted* *,* *like* *the* *down* *of* *a* *bird* *whirled* *by* *the* *tempest* *,* *and* *it* *was* *unconsciously* *that* *she* *went* *towards* *the* *church* *,* *included* *to* *no* *matter* *what* *devotions* *,* *so* *that* *her* *soul* *was* *absorbed* *and* *all* *existence* *lost* *in* *it* *.*
*``* *Where* *is* *the* *cure* *?* *''* *asked* *Madame* *Bovary* *of* *one* *of* *the* *lads* *,* *who* *was* *amusing* *himself* *by* *shaking* *a* *swivel* *in* *a* *hole* *too* *large* *for* *it* *.*
*Then* *,* *bethinking* *himself* *,* *"* *But* *you* *were* *asking* *me* *something* *?*
*One* *can* *not* *lead* *them* *too* *soon* *into* *the* *path* *of* *the* *Lord* *,* *as* *,* *moreover* *,* *he* *has* *himself* *recommended* *us* *to* *do* *by* *the* *mouth* *of* *his* *Divine* *Son* *.*
*She* *went* *up* *the* *steps* *of* *the* *staircase* *holding* *on* *to* *the* *banisters* *,* *and* *when* *she* *was* *in* *her* *room* *threw* *herself* *into* *an* *arm-chair* *.*
*The* *furniture* *in* *its* *place* *seemed* *to* *have* *become* *more* *immobile* *,* *and* *to* *lose* *itself* *in* *the* *shadow* *as* *in* *an* *ocean* *of* *darkness* *.*
*Madame* *Bovary* *sprang* *to* *lift* *her* *up* *,* *broke* *the* *bell-rope* *,* *called* *for* *the* *servant* *with* *all* *her* *might* *,* *and* *she* *was* *just* *going* *to* *curse* *herself* *when* *Charles* *appeared* *.*
*``* *Look* *,* *dear* *!* *''* *said* *Emma* *,* *in* *a* *calm* *voice* *,* *``* *the* *little* *one* *fell* *down* *while* *she* *was* *playing* *,* *and* *has* *hurt* *herself* *.* *''*
*``* *I* *assure* *you* *it* *'s* *nothing* *.* *''* *he* *said* *,* *kissing* *her* *on* *the* *forehead* *.* *``* *Do* *n't* *worry* *,* *my* *poor* *darling* *;* *you* *will* *make* *yourself* *ill* *.* *''*
*Although* *he* *had* *not* *seemed* *much* *moved* *,* *Homais* *,* *nevertheless* *,* *had* *exerted* *himself* *to* *buoy* *him* *up* *,* *to* *``* *keep* *up* *his* *spirits* *.* *''*
*``* *Can* *he* *suspect* *anything* *?* *''* *Leon* *asked* *himself* *.*
*At* *last* *,* *Charles* *,* *having* *shut* *the* *door* *,* *asked* *him* *to* *see* *himself* *what* *would* *be* *the* *price* *at* *Rouen* *of* *a* *fine* *daguerreotypes* *.*
*All* *the* *same* *,* *his* *companion* *seemed* *very* *strange* *to* *him* *,* *for* *Leon* *often* *threw* *himself* *back* *in* *his* *chair* *,* *and* *stretching* *out* *his* *arms* *.* *Complained* *vaguely* *of* *life* *.*
*An* *individual* *presents* *himself* *,* *well* *dressed* *,* *even* *wearing* *an* *order* *,* *and* *whom* *one* *would* *take* *for* *a* *diplomatist* *.*
*He* *approaches* *you* *,* *he* *insinuates* *himself* *;* *offers* *you* *a* *pinch* *of* *snuff* *,* *or* *picks* *up* *your* *hat* *.*
*And* *she* *cursed* *herself* *for* *not* *having* *loved* *Leon* *.*
*The* *wish* *took* *possession* *of* *her* *to* *run* *after* *and* *rejoin* *him* *,* *throw* *herself* *into* *his* *arms* *and* *say* *to* *him* *,* *``* *It* *is* *I* *;* *I* *am* *yours* *.* *''*
*The* *flames* *,* *however* *,* *subsided* *,* *either* *because* *the* *supply* *had* *exhausted* *itself* *,* *or* *because* *it* *had* *been* *piled* *up* *too* *much* *.*
*In* *the* *supineness* *of* *her* *conscience* *she* *even* *took* *her* *repugnance* *towards* *her* *husband* *for* *aspirations* *towards* *her* *lover* *,* *the* *burning* *of* *hate* *for* *the* *warmth* *of* *tenderness* *;* *but* *as* *the* *tempest* *still* *raged* *,* *and* *as* *passion* *burnt* *itself* *down* *to* *the* *very* *cinders* *,* *and* *no* *help* *came* *,* *no* *sun* *rose* *,* *there* *was* *night* *on* *all* *sides* *,* *and* *she* *was* *lost* *in* *the* *terrible* *cold* *that* *pierced* *her* *.*
*She* *thought* *herself* *now* *far* *more* *unhappy* *;* *for* *she* *had* *the* *experience* *of* *grief* *,* *with* *the* *certainty* *that* *it* *would* *not* *end* *.*
*"* *She* *wants* *to* *be* *forced* *to* *occupy* *herself* *with* *some* *manual* *work* *.*
*She* *was* *,* *when* *she* *passed* *through* *Rouen* *,* *to* *go* *herself* *to* *the* *lending-library* *and* *represent* *that* *Emma* *had* *discontinued* *her* *subscription* *.*
*The* *window* *in* *the* *provinces* *replaces* *the* *theatre* *and* *the* *promenade* *,* *she* *was* *amusing* *herself* *with* *watching* *the* *crowd* *of* *boors* *when* *she* *saw* *a* *gentleman* *in* *a* *green* *velvet* *coat* *.*
*It* *was* *not* *from* *territorial* *vanity* *that* *the* *new* *arrival* *added* *``* *of* *La* *Huchette* *''* *to* *his* *name* *,* *but* *to* *make* *himself* *the* *better* *known* *.*
*La* *Huchette* *,* *in* *fact* *,* *was* *an* *estate* *near* *Yonville* *,* *where* *he* *had* *just* *bought* *the* *chateau* *and* *two* *farms* *that* *he* *cultivated* *himself* *,* *without* *,* *however* *,* *troubling* *very* *much* *about* *them* *.*
*Here* *'s* *a* *fine* *fitness* *for* *practising* *pharmacy* *later* *on* *;* *for* *under* *serious* *circumstances* *you* *may* *be* *called* *before* *the* *tribunals* *in* *order* *to* *enlighten* *the* *minds* *of* *the* *magistrates* *,* *and* *you* *would* *have* *to* *keep* *your* *head* *then* *,* *to* *reason* *,* *show* *yourself* *a* *man* *,* *or* *else* *pass* *for* *an* *imbecile* *.* *"*
*Monsieur* *Boulanger* *,* *however* *,* *dismissed* *his* *servant* *,* *advising* *him* *to* *calm* *himself* *,* *since* *his* *fancy* *was* *over* *.*
*He* *asked* *himself* *-*
*I* *'ll* *send* *them* *venison* *,* *poultry* *;* *I* *'ll* *have* *myself* *bled* *,* *if* *need* *be* *.*
*``* *What* *'s* *the* *meaning* *of* *that* *?* *''* *he* *asked* *himself* *.*
*``* *Why* *,* *''* *he* *went* *on* *,* *``* *allow* *oneself* *to* *be* *intruded* *upon* *by* *others* *?* *And* *as* *to-day* *I* *have* *the* *happiness* *of* *being* *with* *you* *-* *''*
*I* *seem* *so* *,* *because* *in* *the* *midst* *of* *the* *world* *I* *know* *how* *to* *wear* *the* *mask* *of* *a* *scoffer* *upon* *my* *face* *;* *and* *yet* *,* *how* *many* *a* *time* *at* *the* *sight* *of* *a* *cemetery* *by* *moonlight* *have* *I* *not* *asked* *myself* *whether* *it* *were* *not* *better* *to* *join* *those* *sleeping* *there* *!* *"*
*Monsieur* *Tuvache* *answered* *them* *with* *compliments* *;* *the* *other* *confessed* *himself* *nervous* *;* *and* *they* *remained* *thus* *,* *face* *to* *face* *,* *their* *foreheads* *almost* *touching* *,* *with* *the* *members* *of* *the* *jury* *all* *round* *,* *the* *municipal* *council* *,* *the* *notable* *personages* *,* *the* *National* *Guard* *and* *the* *crowd* *.*
*``* *Oh* *,* *you* *are* *slandering* *yourself* *,* *''* *said* *Emma* *.*
*They* *need* *by* *turns* *to* *dream* *and* *to* *act* *,* *the* *purest* *passions* *and* *the* *most* *turbulent* *joys* *,* *and* *thus* *they* *fling* *themselves* *into* *all* *sorts* *of* *fantasies* *,* *of* *follies* *.* *"*
*And* *,* *gentlemen* *,* *I* *do* *not* *mean* *that* *superficial* *intelligence* *,* *vain* *ornament* *of* *idle* *minds* *,* *but* *rather* *that* *profound* *and* *balanced* *intelligence* *that* *applies* *itself* *above* *all* *else* *to* *useful* *objects* *,* *thus* *contributing* *to* *the* *good* *of* *all* *,* *to* *the* *common* *amelioration* *and* *to* *the* *support* *of* *the* *state* *,* *born* *of* *respect* *for* *law* *and* *the* *practice* *of* *duty* *-* *"*
*For* *how* *should* *we* *clothe* *ourselves* *,* *how* *nourish* *ourselves* *,* *without* *the* *agriculturist* *?*
*His* *was* *not* *perhaps* *so* *florid* *as* *that* *of* *the* *councillor* *,* *but* *it* *recommended* *itself* *by* *a* *more* *direct* *style* *,* *that* *is* *to* *say* *,* *by* *more* *special* *knowledge* *and* *more* *elevated* *considerations* *.*
*Monsieur* *Derozerays* *set* *himself* *this* *problem* *.*
*She* *did* *not* *present* *herself* *,* *and* *one* *could* *hear* *voices* *whispering* *-*
*It* *was* *the* *first* *time* *that* *she* *found* *herself* *in* *the* *midst* *of* *so* *large* *a* *company* *,* *and* *inwardly* *scared* *by* *the* *flags* *,* *the* *drums* *,* *the* *gentlemen* *in* *frock-coats* *,* *and* *the* *order* *of* *the* *councillor* *,* *she* *stood* *motionless* *,* *not* *knowing* *whether* *to* *advance* *or* *run* *away* *,* *nor* *why* *the* *crowd* *was* *pushing* *her* *and* *the* *jury* *were* *smiling* *at* *her* *.*
*Each* *one* *stuffed* *himself* *on* *his* *own* *account* *.*
*``* *Perhaps* *you* *would* *not* *do* *ill* *,* *''* *Homais* *said* *to* *him* *,* *``* *to* *send* *one* *of* *your* *men* *,* *or* *to* *go* *yourself* *-* *''*
*Then* *touching* *on* *the* *entry* *of* *the* *councillor* *,* *he* *did* *not* *forget* *``* *the* *martial* *air* *of* *our* *militia* *;* *''* *nor* *``* *our* *most* *merry* *village* *maidens* *;* *''* *nor* *the* *``* *bald-headed* *old* *men* *like* *patriarchs* *who* *were* *there* *,* *and* *of* *whom* *some* *,* *the* *remnants* *of* *our* *phalanxes* *,* *still* *felt* *their* *hearts* *beat* *at* *the* *manly* *sound* *of* *the* *drums* *.* *''* *He* *cited* *himself* *among* *the* *first* *of* *the* *members* *of* *the* *jury* *,* *and* *he* *even* *called* *attention* *in* *a* *note* *to* *the* *fact* *that* *Monsieur* *Homais* *,* *chemist* *,* *had* *sent* *a* *memoir* *on* *cider* *to* *the* *agricultural* *society* *.*
*One* *would* *have* *called* *it* *a* *veritable* *kaleidoscope* *,* *a* *real* *operatic* *scene* *;* *and* *for* *a* *moment* *our* *little* *locality* *might* *have* *thought* *itself* *transported* *into* *the* *midst* *of* *a* *dream* *of* *the* *'* *Thousand* *and* *One* *Nights* *.* *'*
*Of* *this* *the* *other* *took* *advantage* *to* *pull* *himself* *together* *a* *little* *.*
*Her* *figure* *slightly* *bent* *,* *her* *hand* *well* *up* *,* *and* *her* *right* *arm* *stretched* *out* *,* *she* *gave* *herself* *up* *to* *the* *cadence* *of* *the* *movement* *that* *rocked* *her* *in* *her* *saddle* *.*
*She* *feebly* *tried* *to* *disengage* *herself* *.*
*She* *threw* *back* *her* *white* *neck* *,* *swelling* *with* *a* *sigh* *,* *and* *faltering* *,* *in* *tears* *,* *with* *a* *long* *shudder* *and* *hiding* *her* *face* *,* *she* *gave* *herself* *up* *to* *him* *-*
*And* *as* *soon* *as* *she* *had* *got* *rid* *of* *Charles* *she* *went* *and* *shut* *herself* *up* *in* *her* *room* *.*
*But* *when* *she* *saw* *herself* *in* *the* *glass* *she* *wondered* *at* *her* *face* *.*
*She* *became* *herself* *,* *as* *it* *were* *,* *an* *actual* *part* *of* *these* *imaginings* *,* *and* *realised* *the* *love-dream* *of* *her* *youth* *as* *she* *saw* *herself* *in* *this* *type* *of* *amorous* *women* *whom* *she* *had* *so* *envied* *.*
*This* *idea* *made* *her* *pant* *with* *desire* *,* *and* *she* *soon* *found* *herself* *in* *the* *middle* *of* *the* *field* *,* *walking* *with* *rapid* *steps* *,* *without* *looking* *behind* *her* *.*
*At* *last* *he* *declared* *with* *a* *serious* *air* *that* *her* *visits* *were* *becoming* *imprudent* *-* *that* *she* *was* *compromising* *herself* *.*
*The* *tax-collector* *was* *thus* *trying* *to* *hide* *the* *fright* *he* *had* *had* *,* *for* *a* *prefectorial* *order* *having* *prohibited* *duckhunting* *except* *in* *boats* *,* *Monsieur* *Binet* *,* *despite* *his* *respect* *for* *the* *laws* *,* *was* *infringing* *them* *,* *and* *so* *he* *every* *moment* *expected* *to* *see* *the* *rural* *guard* *turn* *up* *.* *But* *this* *anxiety* *whetted* *his* *pleasure* *,* *and* *,* *all* *alone* *in* *his* *tub* *,* *he* *congratulated* *himself* *on* *his* *luck* *and* *on* *his* *cuteness* *.* *At* *sight* *of* *Emma* *he* *seemed* *relieved* *from* *a* *great* *weight* *,* *and* *at* *once* *entered* *upon* *a* *conversation* *.*
*Warm* *yourself* *at* *the* *stove* *in* *the* *meantime* *.*
*Binet* *explained* *that* *he* *wanted* *a* *corrosive* *to* *make* *himself* *some* *copperwater* *with* *which* *to* *remove* *rust* *from* *his* *hunting* *things* *.*
*``* *Why* *,* *to* *defend* *yourself* *,* *''* *replied* *Emma* *.*
*The* *humiliation* *of* *feeling* *herself* *weak* *was* *turning* *to* *rancour* *,* *tempered* *by* *their* *voluptuous* *pleasures* *.*
*When* *he* *did* *come* *,* *she* *showed* *herself* *cold* *and* *almost* *contemptuous* *.*
*She* *even* *asked* *herself* *why* *she* *detested* *Charles* *;* *if* *it* *had* *not* *been* *better* *to* *have* *been* *able* *to* *love* *him* *?*
*Charles* *,* *urged* *by* *the* *druggist* *and* *by* *her* *,* *allowed* *himself* *to* *be* *persuaded* *.*
*She* *threw* *herself* *on* *his* *neck* *;* *they* *sat* *down* *to* *table* *;* *he* *ate* *much* *,* *and* *at* *dessert* *he* *even* *wanted* *to* *take* *a* *cup* *of* *coffee* *,* *a* *luxury* *he* *only* *permitted* *himself* *on* *Sundays* *when* *there* *was* *company* *.*
*They* *talked* *about* *their* *future* *fortune* *,* *of* *the* *improvements* *to* *be* *made* *in* *their* *house* *;* *he* *saw* *people* *'s* *estimation* *of* *him* *growing* *,* *his* *comforts* *increasing* *,* *his* *wife* *always* *loving* *him* *;* *and* *she* *was* *happy* *to* *refresh* *herself* *with* *a* *new* *sentiment* *,* *healthier* *,* *better* *,* *to* *feel* *at* *last* *some* *tenderness* *for* *this* *poor* *fellow* *who* *adored* *her* *.*
*Thus* *on* *Tuesday* *our* *little* *town* *of* *Yonville* *found* *itself* *the* *scene* *of* *a* *surgical* *operation* *which* *is* *at* *the* *same* *time* *an* *act* *of* *loftiest* *philanthropy* *.*
*He* *appeared* *himself* *breathless* *,* *red* *,* *anxious* *,* *and* *asking* *everyone* *who* *was* *going* *up* *the* *stairs* *-*
*With* *many* *precautions* *,* *in* *order* *not* *to* *disturb* *the* *position* *of* *the* *limb* *,* *the* *box* *was* *removed* *,* *and* *an* *awful* *sight* *presented* *itself* *.*
*Hippolyte* *began* *to* *worry* *himself* *,* *and* *Mere* *Lefrancois* *,* *had* *him* *installed* *in* *the* *little* *room* *near* *the* *kitchen* *,* *so* *that* *he* *might* *at* *least* *have* *some* *distraction* *.*
*You* *coddle* *yourself* *like* *a* *king* *!*
*Bovary* *himself* *turned* *sick* *at* *it* *.*
*And* *the* *doctor* *left* *,* *always* *recommending* *him* *to* *diet* *himself* *.*
*He* *began* *by* *pitying* *his* *sufferings* *,* *declaring* *at* *the* *same* *time* *that* *he* *ought* *to* *rejoice* *at* *them* *since* *it* *was* *the* *will* *of* *the* *Lord* *,* *and* *take* *advantage* *of* *the* *occasion* *to* *reconcile* *himself* *to* *Heaven* *.*
*He* *came* *in* *his* *gig* *,* *which* *he* *drove* *himself* *.*
*Homais* *presented* *himself* *.*
*He* *saw* *himself* *dishonoured* *,* *ruined* *,* *lost* *;* *and* *his* *imagination* *,* *assailed* *by* *a* *world* *of* *hypotheses* *,* *tossed* *amongst* *them* *like* *an* *empty* *cask* *borne* *by* *the* *sea* *and* *floating* *upon* *the* *waves* *.*
*How* *was* *it* *that* *she* *-* *she* *,* *who* *was* *so* *intelligent* *-* *could* *have* *allowed* *herself* *to* *be* *deceived* *again* *?* *and* *through* *what* *deplorable* *madness* *had* *she* *thus* *ruined* *her* *life* *by* *continual* *sacrifices* *?* *She* *recalled* *all* *her* *instincts* *of* *luxury* *,* *all* *the* *privations* *of* *her* *soul* *,* *the* *sordidness* *of* *marriage* *,* *of* *the* *household* *,* *her* *dream* *sinking* *into* *the* *mire* *like* *wounded* *swallows* *;* *all* *that* *she* *had* *longed* *for* *,* *all* *that* *she* *had* *denied* *herself* *,* *all* *that* *she* *might* *have* *had* *!* *And* *for* *what* *?* *for* *what* *?*
*"* *Be* *calm* *;* *compose* *yourself* *.*
*Never* *had* *Charles* *seemed* *to* *her* *so* *disagreeable* *,* *to* *have* *such* *stodgy* *fingers* *,* *such* *vulgar* *ways* *,* *to* *be* *so* *dull* *as* *when* *they* *found* *themselves* *together* *after* *her* *meeting* *with* *Rodolphe* *.*
*She* *loaded* *herself* *with* *bracelets* *,* *rings* *,* *and* *necklaces* *.*
*Emma* *had* *a* *number* *in* *her* *cupboard* *that* *she* *squandered* *one* *after* *the* *other* *,* *without* *Charles* *allowing* *himself* *the* *slightest* *observation* *.*
*He* *chatted* *with* *her* *about* *the* *new* *goods* *from* *Paris* *,* *about* *a* *thousand* *feminine* *trifles* *,* *made* *himself* *very* *obliging* *,* *and* *never* *asked* *for* *his* *money* *.*
*I* *ask* *myself* *,* *Where* *is* *he* *?*
*First* *,* *Charles* *had* *not* *attended* *to* *her* *advice* *about* *the* *forbidding* *of* *novels* *;* *then* *the* *``* *ways* *of* *the* *house* *''* *annoyed* *her* *;* *she* *allowed* *herself* *to* *make* *some* *remarks* *,* *and* *there* *were* *quarrels* *,* *especially* *one* *on* *account* *of* *Felicite* *.*
*Then* *,* *having* *gone* *up* *again* *to* *her* *room* *,* *she* *threw* *herself* *flat* *on* *her* *bed* *and* *cried* *there* *like* *a* *child* *,* *her* *face* *buried* *in* *the* *pillow* *.*
*She* *threw* *herself* *into* *his* *arms* *.*
*A* *love* *like* *ours* *ought* *to* *show* *itself* *in* *the* *face* *of* *heaven* *.*
*And* *she* *threw* *herself* *upon* *his* *mouth* *,* *as* *if* *to* *seize* *there* *the* *unexpected* *consent* *if* *breathed* *forth* *in* *a* *kiss* *.*
*Emma* *,* *in* *fact* *,* *was* *showing* *herself* *more* *docile* *,* *and* *even* *carried* *her* *deference* *so* *far* *as* *to* *ask* *for* *a* *recipe* *for* *pickling* *gherkins* *.*
*He* *pictured* *her* *to* *himself* *working* *in* *the* *evening* *by* *their* *side* *beneath* *the* *light* *of* *the* *lamp* *;* *she* *would* *embroider* *him* *slippers* *;* *she* *would* *look* *after* *the* *house* *;* *she* *would* *fill* *all* *the* *home* *with* *her* *charm* *and* *her* *gaiety* *.*
*``* *And* *,* *''* *said* *Madame* *Bovary* *,* *taking* *her* *watch* *from* *her* *belt* *,* *``* *take* *this* *;* *you* *can* *pay* *yourself* *out* *of* *it* *.* *''*
*``* *For* *,* *after* *all* *,* *''* *he* *exclaimed* *,* *gesticulating* *,* *``* *I* *ca* *n't* *exile* *myself* *-* *have* *a* *child* *on* *my* *hands* *.* *''*
*He* *was* *saying* *these* *things* *to* *give* *himself* *firmness* *.*
*In* *fact* *,* *these* *women* *,* *rushing* *at* *once* *into* *his* *thoughts* *,* *cramped* *each* *other* *and* *lessened* *,* *as* *reduced* *to* *a* *uniform* *level* *of* *love* *that* *equalised* *them* *all* *.* *So* *taking* *handfuls* *of* *the* *mixed-up* *letters* *,* *he* *amused* *himself* *for* *some* *moments* *with* *letting* *them* *fall* *in* *cascades* *from* *his* *right* *into* *his* *left* *hand* *.* *At* *last* *,* *bored* *and* *weary* *,* *Rodolphe* *took* *back* *the* *box* *to* *the* *cupboard* *,* *saying* *to* *himself* *,* *``* *What* *a* *lot* *of* *rubbish* *!* *''* *Which* *summed* *up* *his* *opinion* *;* *for* *pleasures* *,* *like* *schoolboys* *in* *a* *school* *courtyard* *,* *had* *so* *trampled* *upon* *his* *heart* *that* *no* *green* *thing* *grew* *there* *,* *and* *that* *which* *passed* *through* *it* *,* *more* *heedless* *than* *children* *,* *did* *not* *even* *,* *like* *them* *,* *leave* *a* *name* *carved* *upon* *the* *wall* *.*
*For* *I* *am* *going* *to* *punish* *myself* *by* *exile* *for* *all* *the* *ill* *I* *have* *done* *you* *.*
*Then* *she* *tried* *to* *calm* *herself* *;* *she* *recalled* *the* *letter* *;* *she* *must* *finish* *it* *;* *she* *did* *not* *dare* *to* *.* *And* *where* *?*
*The* *slates* *threw* *straight* *down* *a* *heavy* *heat* *that* *gripped* *her* *temples* *,* *stifled* *her* *;* *she* *dragged* *herself* *to* *the* *closed* *garret-window* *.*
*The* *blue* *of* *the* *heavens* *suffused* *her* *,* *the* *air* *was* *whirling* *in* *her* *hollow* *head* *;* *she* *had* *but* *to* *yield* *,* *to* *let* *herself* *be* *taken* *;* *and* *the* *humming* *of* *the* *lathe* *never* *ceased* *,* *like* *an* *angry* *voice* *calling* *her* *.*
*Then* *she* *unfolded* *her* *napkin* *as* *if* *to* *examine* *the* *darns* *,* *and* *she* *really* *thought* *of* *applying* *herself* *to* *this* *work* *,* *counting* *the* *threads* *in* *the* *linen* *.*
*He* *absents* *himself* *like* *that* *from* *time* *to* *time* *for* *a* *change* *,* *and* *,* *ma* *foi* *,* *I* *think* *he* *'s* *right* *,* *when* *one* *has* *a* *fortune* *and* *is* *a* *bachelor* *.*
*``* *Speak* *to* *us* *,* *''* *said* *Charles* *;* *"* *collect* *yourself* *;* *it* *is* *your* *Charles* *,* *who* *loves* *you* *.*
*She* *drew* *herself* *up* *slowly* *,* *shading* *her* *eyes* *with* *her* *hand* *to* *look* *.*
*``* *You* *will* *tire* *yourself* *,* *my* *darling* *!* *''* *said* *Bovary* *.* *And* *,* *pushing* *her* *gently* *to* *make* *her* *go* *into* *the* *arbour* *,* *``* *Sit* *down* *on* *this* *seat* *;* *you* *'ll* *be* *comfortable* *.* *''*
*Charles* *several* *times* *asked* *himself* *by* *what* *means* *he* *should* *next* *year* *be* *able* *to* *pay* *back* *so* *much* *money* *.*
*He* *reproached* *himself* *with* *forgetting* *Emma* *,* *as* *if* *,* *all* *his* *thoughts* *belonging* *to* *this* *woman* *,* *it* *was* *robbing* *her* *of* *something* *not* *to* *be* *constantly* *thinking* *of* *her* *.*
*One* *day* *,* *when* *at* *the* *height* *of* *her* *illness* *,* *she* *had* *thought* *herself* *dying* *,* *and* *had* *asked* *for* *the* *communion* *;* *and* *,* *while* *they* *were* *making* *the* *preparations* *in* *her* *room* *for* *the* *sacrament* *,* *while* *they* *were* *turning* *the* *night* *table* *covered* *with* *syrups* *into* *an* *altar* *,* *and* *while* *Felicite* *was* *strewing* *dahlia* *flowers* *on* *the* *floor* *,* *Emma* *felt* *some* *power* *passing* *over* *her* *that* *freed* *her* *from* *her* *pains* *,* *from* *all* *perception* *,* *from* *all* *feeling* *.*
*Madame* *Bovary* *'s* *mind* *was* *not* *yet* *sufficiently* *clear* *to* *apply* *herself* *seriously* *to* *anything* *;* *moreover* *,* *she* *began* *this* *reading* *in* *too* *much* *hurry* *.*
*Nevertheless* *,* *she* *persevered* *;* *and* *when* *the* *volume* *slipped* *from* *her* *hands* *,* *she* *fancied* *herself* *seized* *with* *the* *finest* *Catholic* *melancholy* *that* *an* *ethereal* *soul* *could* *conceive* *.*
*This* *searching* *after* *faith* *,* *she* *thought* *,* *was* *only* *one* *merit* *the* *more* *,* *and* *in* *the* *pride* *of* *her* *devoutness* *Emma* *compared* *herself* *to* *those* *grand* *ladies* *of* *long* *ago* *whose* *glory* *she* *,* *had* *dreamed* *of* *over* *a* *portrait* *of* *La* *Valliere* *,* *and* *who* *,* *trailing* *with* *so* *much* *majesty* *the* *lace-trimmed* *trains* *of* *their* *long* *gowns* *,* *retired* *into* *solitudes* *to* *shed* *at* *the* *feet* *of* *Christ* *all* *the* *tears* *of* *hearts* *that* *life* *had* *wounded* *.*
*Then* *she* *gave* *herself* *up* *to* *excessive* *charity* *.*
*And* *without* *waiting* *for* *any* *answer* *from* *Felicite* *,* *who* *was* *blushing* *,* *she* *added* *,* *``* *There* *!* *run* *along* *;* *enjoy* *yourself* *!* *''*
*The* *ecclesiastic* *contented* *himself* *with* *uttering* *a* *groan* *,* *and* *the* *chemist* *went* *on* *-*
*The* *druggist* *,* *whom* *nothing* *whatever* *kept* *at* *Yonville* *,* *but* *who* *thought* *himself* *bound* *not* *to* *budge* *from* *it* *,* *sighed* *as* *he* *saw* *them* *go* *.*
*Then* *addressing* *himself* *to* *Emma* *,* *who* *was* *wearing* *a* *blue* *silk* *gown* *with* *four* *flounces* *-*
*The* *doctor* *was* *much* *afraid* *of* *missing* *the* *beginning* *,* *and* *,* *without* *having* *had* *time* *to* *swallow* *a* *plate* *of* *soup* *,* *they* *presented* *themselves* *at* *the* *doors* *of* *the* *theatre* *,* *which* *were* *still* *closed* *.*
*Another* *appeared* *;* *they* *went* *away* *,* *and* *the* *hunters* *started* *afresh* *.* *She* *felt* *herself* *transported* *to* *the* *reading* *of* *her* *youth* *,* *into* *the* *midst* *of* *Walter* *Scott* *.*
*She* *gave* *herself* *up* *to* *the* *lullaby* *of* *the* *melodies* *,* *and* *felt* *all* *her* *being* *vibrate* *as* *if* *the* *violin* *bows* *were* *drawn* *over* *her* *nerves* *.* *She* *had* *not* *eyes* *enough* *to* *look* *at* *the* *costumes* *,* *the* *scenery* *,* *the* *actors* *,* *the* *painted* *trees* *that* *shook* *when* *anyone* *walked* *,* *and* *the* *velvet* *caps* *,* *cloaks* *,* *swords* *-* *all* *those* *imaginary* *things* *that* *floated* *amid* *the* *harmony* *as* *in* *the* *atmosphere* *of* *another* *world* *.*
*She* *had* *ruined* *herself* *for* *him* *.*
*Emma* *dreamed* *of* *her* *marriage* *day* *;* *she* *saw* *herself* *at* *home* *again* *amid* *the* *corn* *in* *the* *little* *path* *as* *they* *walked* *to* *the* *church* *.*
*She* *,* *on* *the* *contrary* *,* *had* *been* *joyous* *,* *without* *seeing* *the* *abyss* *into* *which* *she* *was* *throwing* *herself* *.*
*With* *him* *,* *through* *all* *the* *kingdoms* *of* *Europe* *she* *would* *have* *travelled* *from* *capital* *to* *capital* *,* *sharing* *his* *fatigues* *and* *his* *pride* *,* *picking* *up* *the* *flowers* *thrown* *to* *him* *,* *herself* *embroidering* *his* *costumes* *.*
*But* *soon* *recalling* *herself* *to* *the* *necessities* *of* *the* *situation* *,* *with* *an* *effort* *she* *shook* *off* *the* *torpor* *of* *her* *memories* *,* *and* *began* *stammering* *a* *few* *hurried* *words* *.*
*He* *was* *standing* *behind* *her* *,* *leaning* *with* *his* *shoulder* *against* *the* *wall* *of* *the* *box* *;* *now* *and* *again* *she* *felt* *herself* *shuddering* *beneath* *the* *hot* *breath* *from* *his* *nostrils* *falling* *upon* *her* *hair* *.*
*And* *changing* *his* *tactics* *at* *this* *unexpected* *opportunity* *that* *presented* *itself* *to* *his* *hopes* *,* *the* *young* *man* *sang* *the* *praises* *of* *Lagardy* *in* *the* *last* *number* *.*
*Charles* *explained* *once* *more* *that* *he* *could* *not* *absent* *himself* *longer* *,* *but* *that* *nothing* *prevented* *Emma* *-*
*One* *ought* *not* *to* *accustom* *oneself* *to* *impossible* *pleasures* *when* *there* *are* *a* *thousand* *demands* *upon* *one* *.* *"*
*As* *they* *talked* *they* *explained* *more* *and* *more* *fully* *the* *motives* *of* *their* *sadness* *,* *working* *themselves* *up* *in* *their* *progressive* *confidence* *.*
*Often* *I* *went* *out* *;* *I* *went* *away* *.* *I* *dragged* *myself* *along* *the* *quays* *,* *seeking* *distraction* *amid* *the* *din* *of* *the* *crowd* *without* *being* *able* *to* *banish* *the* *heaviness* *that* *weighed* *upon* *me* *.*
*He* *started* *off* *in* *praise* *of* *virtue* *,* *duty* *,* *and* *silent* *immolation* *,* *having* *himself* *an* *incredible* *longing* *for* *self-sacrifice* *that* *he* *could* *not* *satisfy* *.*
*``* *Because* *I* *loved* *you* *so* *!* *''* *And* *congratulating* *himself* *at* *having* *surmounted* *the* *difficulty* *,* *Leon* *watched* *her* *face* *out* *of* *the* *corner* *of* *his* *eyes* *.*
*No* *doubt* *Emma* *did* *not* *herself* *know* *,* *quite* *absorbed* *as* *she* *was* *by* *the* *charm* *of* *the* *seduction* *,* *and* *the* *necessity* *of* *defending* *herself* *from* *it* *;* *and* *contemplating* *the* *young* *man* *with* *a* *moved* *look* *,* *she* *gently* *repulsed* *the* *timid* *caresses* *that* *his* *trembling* *hands* *attempted* *.*
*The* *next* *morning* *,* *at* *the* *open* *window* *,* *and* *humming* *on* *his* *balcony* *,* *Leon* *himself* *varnished* *his* *pumps* *with* *several* *coatings* *.*
*He* *seemed* *to* *him* *to* *be* *conducting* *himself* *in* *a* *monstrous* *fashion* *,* *to* *be* *robbing* *him* *in* *a* *sort* *,* *and* *almost* *committing* *sacrilege* *.*
*It* *was* *thus* *the* *druggist* *called* *a* *small* *room* *under* *the* *leads* *,* *full* *of* *the* *utensils* *and* *the* *goods* *of* *his* *trade* *.* *He* *often* *spent* *long* *hours* *there* *alone* *,* *labelling* *,* *decanting* *,* *and* *doing* *up* *again* *;* *and* *he* *looked* *upon* *it* *not* *as* *a* *simple* *store* *,* *but* *as* *a* *veritable* *sanctuary* *,* *whence* *there* *afterwards* *issued* *,* *elaborated* *by* *his* *hands* *,* *all* *sorts* *of* *pills* *,* *boluses* *,* *infusions* *,* *lotions* *,* *and* *potions* *,* *that* *would* *bear* *far* *and* *wide* *his* *celebrity* *.* *No* *one* *in* *the* *world* *set* *foot* *there* *,* *and* *he* *respected* *it* *so* *,* *that* *he* *swept* *it* *himself* *.* *Finally* *,* *if* *the* *pharmacy* *,* *open* *to* *all* *comers* *,* *was* *the* *spot* *where* *he* *displayed* *his* *pride* *,* *the* *Capharnaum* *was* *the* *refuge* *where* *,* *egoistically* *concentrating* *himself* *,* *Homais* *delighted* *in* *the* *exercise* *of* *his* *predilections* *,* *so* *that* *Justin* *'s* *thoughtlessness* *seemed* *to* *him* *a* *monstrous* *piece* *of* *irreverence* *,* *and* *,* *redder* *than* *the* *currants* *,* *he* *repeated* *-*
*"* *Presently* *!* *Do* *you* *know* *to* *what* *you* *exposed* *yourself* *?*
*Often* *I* *am* *horrified* *myself* *when* *I* *think* *of* *my* *responsibility* *;* *for* *the* *Government* *persecutes* *us* *,* *and* *the* *absurd* *legislation* *that* *rules* *us* *is* *a* *veritable* *Damocles* *'* *sword* *over* *our* *heads* *.* *"*
*He* *would* *have* *quoted* *Chinese* *or* *Greenlandish* *had* *he* *known* *those* *two* *languages* *,* *for* *he* *was* *in* *one* *of* *those* *crises* *in* *which* *the* *whole* *soul* *shows* *indistinctly* *what* *it* *contains* *,* *like* *the* *ocean* *,* *which* *,* *in* *the* *storm* *,* *opens* *itself* *from* *the* *seaweeds* *on* *its* *shores* *down* *to* *the* *sands* *of* *its* *abysses* *.*
*Then* *he* *came* *straight* *to* *his* *pupil* *,* *and* *,* *planting* *himself* *in* *front* *of* *him* *with* *crossed* *arms* *-*
*However* *,* *he* *was* *growing* *calmer* *,* *and* *was* *now* *grumbling* *in* *a* *paternal* *tone* *whilst* *he* *fanned* *himself* *with* *his* *skull-cap* *.*
*At* *any* *rate* *,* *not* *till* *you* *are* *man* *yourself* *and* *your* *temperament* *is* *formed* *.* *"*
*Seeing* *her* *so* *taciturn* *,* *Charles* *imagined* *her* *much* *affected* *,* *and* *forced* *himself* *to* *say* *nothing* *,* *not* *to* *reawaken* *this* *sorrow* *which* *moved* *him* *.*
*``* *Did* *you* *enjoy* *yourself* *yesterday* *?* *''* *he* *asked* *.*
*She* *had* *bored* *herself* *so* *prodigiously* *the* *last* *two* *days* *.*
*The* *doctor* *,* *of* *course* *,* *would* *do* *as* *he* *pleased* *;* *he* *was* *not* *to* *trouble* *himself* *,* *especially* *just* *now* *,* *when* *he* *would* *have* *a* *lot* *of* *worry* *.*
*Then* *he* *came* *again* *to* *measure* *it* *;* *he* *came* *again* *on* *other* *pretexts* *,* *always* *trying* *to* *make* *himself* *agreeable* *,* *useful* *,* *``* *enfeoffing* *himself* *,* *''* *as* *Homais* *would* *have* *said* *,* *and* *always* *dropping* *some* *hint* *to* *Emma* *about* *the* *power* *of* *attorney* *.*
*For* *my* *own* *part* *,* *I* *think* *that* *mothers* *ought* *themselves* *to* *instruct* *their* *children* *.*
*At* *last* *,* *when* *he* *had* *eaten* *his* *soup* *,* *put* *on* *his* *cloak* *,* *lighted* *his* *pipe* *,* *and* *grasped* *his* *whip* *,* *he* *calmly* *installed* *himself* *on* *his* *seat* *.*
*A* *giddiness* *seemed* *to* *her* *to* *detach* *itself* *from* *this* *mass* *of* *existence* *,* *and* *her* *heart* *swelled* *as* *if* *the* *hundred* *and* *twenty* *thousand* *souls* *that* *palpitated* *there* *had* *all* *at* *once* *sent* *into* *it* *the* *vapour* *of* *the* *passions* *she* *fancied* *theirs* *.* *Her* *love* *grew* *in* *the* *presence* *of* *this* *vastness* *,* *and* *expanded* *with* *tumult* *to* *the* *vague* *murmurings* *that* *rose* *towards* *her* *.*
*They* *were* *so* *completely* *lost* *in* *the* *possession* *of* *each* *other* *that* *they* *thought* *themselves* *in* *their* *own* *house* *,* *and* *that* *they* *would* *live* *there* *till* *death* *,* *like* *two* *spouses* *eternally* *young* *.* *They* *said* *``* *our* *room* *,* *''* *``* *our* *carpet* *,* *''* *she* *even* *said* *``* *my* *slippers* *,* *''* *a* *gift* *of* *Leon* *'s* *,* *a* *whim* *she* *had* *had* *.*
*So* *he* *thought* *himself* *the* *most* *fortunate* *of* *men* *and* *Emma* *was* *without* *uneasiness* *,* *when* *,* *one* *evening* *suddenly* *he* *said* *-*
*``* *If* *I* *were* *in* *your* *place* *,* *''* *he* *said* *,* *``* *I* *should* *clear* *myself* *of* *my* *debts* *,* *and* *have* *money* *left* *over* *.* *''*
*``* *It* *really* *grieves* *me* *,* *on* *my* *word* *!* *to* *see* *you* *depriving* *yourself* *all* *at* *once* *of* *such* *a* *big* *sum* *as* *that* *.* *''*
*Instead* *of* *sending* *a* *reply* *she* *came* *herself* *;* *and* *when* *Emma* *wanted* *to* *know* *whether* *he* *had* *got* *anything* *out* *of* *her* *,* *``* *Yes* *,* *''* *he* *replied* *;* *``* *but* *she* *wants* *to* *see* *the* *account* *.* *''*
*I* *should* *be* *ashamed* *to* *coddle* *myself* *as* *you* *do* *!*
*As* *he* *was* *turning* *into* *the* *street* *,* *Emma* *herself* *appeared* *at* *the* *other* *end* *of* *it* *.*
*He* *threw* *himself* *upon* *her* *rather* *than* *embraced* *her* *,* *crying* *-*
*This* *was* *a* *sort* *of* *permission* *that* *she* *gave* *herself* *,* *so* *as* *to* *get* *perfect* *freedom* *in* *her* *escapades* *.*
*At* *last* *she* *ran* *to* *his* *office* *;* *and* *,* *lost* *in* *all* *sorts* *of* *conjectures* *,* *accusing* *him* *of* *indifference* *,* *and* *reproaching* *herself* *for* *her* *weakness* *,* *she* *spent* *the* *afternoon* *,* *her* *face* *pressed* *against* *the* *window-panes* *.*
*Homais* *was* *enjoying* *himself* *.*
*Then* *,* *through* *cowardice* *,* *through* *stupidity* *,* *through* *that* *indefinable* *feeling* *that* *drags* *us* *into* *the* *most* *distasteful* *acts* *,* *he* *allowed* *himself* *to* *be* *led* *off* *to* *Bridoux* *'* *,* *whom* *they* *found* *in* *his* *small* *yard* *,* *superintending* *three* *workmen* *,* *who* *panted* *as* *they* *turned* *the* *large* *wheel* *of* *a* *machine* *for* *making* *seltzer-water* *.*
*This* *failing* *to* *keep* *their* *rendezvous* *seemed* *to* *her* *an* *insult* *,* *and* *she* *tried* *to* *rake* *up* *other* *reasons* *to* *separate* *herself* *from* *him* *.*
*They* *gradually* *came* *to* *talking* *more* *frequently* *of* *matters* *outside* *their* *love* *,* *and* *in* *the* *letters* *that* *Emma* *wrote* *him* *she* *spoke* *of* *flowers* *,* *verses* *,* *the* *moon* *and* *the* *stars* *,* *naive* *resources* *of* *a* *waning* *passion* *striving* *to* *keep* *itself* *alive* *by* *all* *external* *aids* *.*
*She* *was* *constantly* *promising* *herself* *a* *profound* *felicity* *on* *her* *next* *journey* *.* *Then* *she* *confessed* *to* *herself* *that* *she* *felt* *nothing* *extraordinary* *.*
*She* *went* *on* *tiptoe* *,* *barefooted* *,* *to* *see* *once* *more* *that* *the* *door* *was* *closed* *,* *then* *,* *pale* *,* *serious* *,* *and* *,* *without* *speaking* *,* *with* *one* *movement* *,* *she* *threw* *herself* *upon* *his* *breast* *with* *a* *long* *shudder* *.*
*``* *But* *I* *was* *pressed* *myself* *;* *the* *knife* *was* *at* *my* *own* *throat* *.* *''*
*He* *explained* *everything* *through* *her* *old* *nervous* *illness* *,* *and* *reproaching* *himself* *with* *having* *taken* *her* *infirmities* *for* *faults* *,* *accused* *himself* *of* *egotism* *,* *and* *longed* *to* *go* *and* *take* *her* *in* *his* *arms* *.*
*One* *day* *she* *drew* *six* *small* *silver-gilt* *spoons* *from* *her* *bag* *(* *they* *were* *old* *Roualt* *'s* *wedding* *present* *)* *,* *begging* *him* *to* *pawn* *them* *at* *once* *for* *her* *,* *and* *Leon* *obeyed* *,* *though* *the* *proceeding* *annoyed* *him* *.* *He* *was* *afraid* *of* *compromising* *himself* *.*
*In* *fact* *someone* *had* *sent* *his* *mother* *a* *long* *anonymous* *letter* *to* *warn* *her* *that* *he* *was* *``* *ruining* *himself* *with* *a* *married* *woman* *,* *''* *and* *the* *good* *lady* *at* *once* *conjuring* *up* *the* *eternal* *bugbear* *of* *families* *,* *the* *vague* *pernicious* *creature* *,* *the* *siren* *,* *the* *monster* *,* *who* *dwells* *fantastically* *in* *depths* *of* *love* *,* *wrote* *to* *Lawyer* *Dubocage* *,* *his* *employer* *,* *who* *behaved* *perfectly* *in* *the* *affair* *.* *He* *kept* *him* *for* *three* *quarters* *of* *an* *hour* *trying* *to* *open* *his* *eyes* *,* *to* *warn* *him* *of* *the* *abyss* *into* *which* *he* *was* *falling* *.* *Such* *an* *intrigue* *would* *damage* *him* *later* *on* *,* *when* *he* *set* *up* *for* *himself* *.* *He* *implored* *him* *to* *break* *with* *her* *,* *and* *,* *if* *he* *would* *not* *make* *this* *sacrifice* *in* *his* *own* *interest* *,* *to* *do* *it* *at* *least* *for* *his* *,* *Dubocage* *'s* *sake* *.*
*At* *last* *Leon* *swore* *he* *would* *not* *see* *Emma* *again* *,* *and* *he* *reproached* *himself* *with* *not* *having* *kept* *his* *word* *,* *considering* *all* *the* *worry* *and* *lectures* *this* *woman* *might* *still* *draw* *down* *upon* *him* *,* *without* *reckoning* *the* *jokes* *made* *by* *his* *companions* *as* *they* *sat* *round* *the* *stove* *in* *the* *morning* *.* *Besides* *,* *he* *was* *soon* *to* *be* *head* *clerk* *;* *it* *was* *time* *to* *settle* *down* *.* *So* *he* *gave* *up* *his* *flute* *,* *exalted* *sentiments* *,* *and* *poetry* *;* *for* *every* *bourgeois* *in* *the* *flush* *of* *his* *youth* *,* *were* *it* *but* *for* *a* *day* *,* *a* *moment* *,* *has* *believed* *himself* *capable* *of* *immense* *passions* *,* *of* *lofty* *enterprises* *.* *The* *most* *mediocre* *libertine* *has* *dreamed* *of* *sultanas* *;* *every* *notary* *bears* *within* *him* *the* *debris* *of* *a* *poet* *.*
*On* *Mid-Lent* *she* *did* *not* *return* *to* *Yonville* *,* *but* *in* *the* *evening* *went* *to* *a* *masked* *ball* *.* *She* *wore* *velvet* *breeches* *,* *red* *stockings* *,* *a* *club* *wig* *,* *and* *three-cornered* *hat* *cocked* *on* *one* *side* *.* *She* *danced* *all* *night* *to* *the* *wild* *tones* *of* *the* *trombones* *;* *people* *gathered* *round* *her* *,* *and* *in* *the* *morning* *she* *found* *herself* *on* *the* *steps* *of* *the* *theatre* *together* *with* *five* *or* *six* *masks* *,* *debardeuses* *** *and* *sailors* *,* *Leon* *'s* *comrades* *,* *who* *were* *talking* *about* *having* *supper* *.*
*Then* *,* *reaching* *the* *``* *Croix-Rouge* *,* *''* *she* *threw* *herself* *on* *the* *bed* *in* *her* *little* *room* *on* *the* *second* *floor* *,* *where* *there* *were* *pictures* *of* *the* *``* *Tour* *de* *Nesle* *.* *''*
*She* *presented* *herself* *at* *his* *place* *with* *an* *offhand* *air* *.*
*She* *was* *stoical* *the* *next* *day* *when* *Maitre* *Hareng* *,* *the* *bailiff* *,* *with* *two* *assistants* *,* *presented* *himself* *at* *her* *house* *to* *draw* *up* *the* *inventory* *for* *the* *distraint* *.*
*An* *infernal* *boldness* *looked* *out* *from* *her* *burning* *eyes* *,* *and* *their* *lids* *drew* *close* *together* *with* *a* *lascivious* *and* *encouraging* *look* *,* *so* *that* *the* *young* *man* *felt* *himself* *growing* *weak* *beneath* *the* *mute* *will* *of* *this* *woman* *who* *was* *urging* *him* *to* *a* *crime* *.*
*She* *was* *so* *overwhelmed* *,* *so* *sad* *,* *that* *she* *had* *to* *lean* *against* *a* *wall* *to* *keep* *herself* *from* *falling* *.*
*Madame* *Homais* *was* *very* *fond* *of* *these* *small* *,* *heavy* *turban-shaped* *loaves* *,* *that* *are* *eaten* *in* *Lent* *with* *salt* *butter* *;* *a* *last* *vestige* *of* *Gothic* *food* *that* *goes* *back* *,* *perhaps* *,* *to* *the* *time* *of* *the* *Crusades* *,* *and* *with* *which* *the* *robust* *Normans* *gorged* *themselves* *of* *yore* *,* *fancying* *they* *saw* *on* *the* *table* *,* *in* *the* *light* *of* *the* *yellow* *torches* *,* *between* *tankards* *of* *hippocras* *and* *huge* *boars* *'* *heads* *,* *the* *heads* *of* *Saracens* *to* *be* *devoured* *.*
*Instead* *of* *getting* *drunk* *at* *the* *public* *,* *you* *'d* *do* *better* *to* *die* *yourself* *.* *"*
*But* *the* *druggist* *said* *that* *he* *would* *cure* *himself* *with* *an* *antiphlogistic* *pomade* *of* *his* *own* *composition* *,* *and* *he* *gave* *his* *address* *-* *``* *Monsieur* *Homais* *,* *near* *the* *market* *,* *pretty* *well* *known* *.* *''*
*They* *might* *,* *either* *in* *the* *turf-peats* *of* *Grumesnil* *or* *building-ground* *at* *Havre* *,* *almost* *without* *risk* *,* *have* *ventured* *on* *some* *excellent* *speculations* *;* *and* *he* *let* *her* *consume* *herself* *with* *rage* *at* *the* *thought* *of* *the* *fabulous* *sums* *that* *she* *would* *certainly* *have* *made* *.*
*He* *dragged* *himself* *towards* *her* *on* *his* *knees* *,* *regardless* *of* *his* *dressing-gown* *.*
*``* *What* *a* *wretch* *!* *what* *a* *scoundrel* *!* *what* *an* *infamy* *!* *''* *she* *said* *to* *herself* *,* *as* *she* *fled* *with* *nervous* *steps* *beneath* *the* *aspens* *of* *the* *path* *.* *The* *disappointment* *of* *her* *failure* *increased* *the* *indignation* *of* *her* *outraged* *modesty* *;* *it* *seemed* *to* *her* *that* *Providence* *pursued* *her* *implacably* *,* *and* *,* *strengthening* *herself* *in* *her* *pride* *,* *she* *had* *never* *felt* *so* *much* *esteem* *for* *herself* *nor* *so* *much* *contempt* *for* *others* *.* *A* *spirit* *of* *warfare* *transformed* *her* *.* *She* *would* *have* *liked* *to* *strike* *all* *men* *,* *to* *spit* *in* *their* *faces* *,* *to* *crush* *them* *,* *and* *she* *walked* *rapidly* *straight* *on* *,* *pale* *,* *quivering* *,* *maddened* *,* *searching* *the* *empty* *horizon* *with* *tear-dimmed* *eyes* *,* *and* *as* *it* *were* *rejoicing* *in* *the* *hate* *that* *was* *choking* *her* *.*
*She* *hurried* *off* *to* *tell* *Madame* *Caron* *,* *and* *the* *two* *ladies* *went* *up* *to* *the* *attic* *,* *and* *,* *hidden* *by* *some* *linen* *spread* *across* *props* *,* *stationed* *themselves* *comfortably* *for* *overlooking* *the* *whole* *of* *Binet* *'s* *room* *.*
*And* *she* *already* *saw* *herself* *at* *Lheureux* *'s* *spreading* *out* *her* *three* *bank-notes* *on* *his* *bureau* *.*
*So* *she* *set* *out* *towards* *La* *Huchette* *,* *not* *seeing* *that* *she* *was* *hastening* *to* *offer* *herself* *to* *that* *which* *but* *a* *while* *ago* *had* *so* *angered* *her* *,* *not* *in* *the* *least* *conscious* *of* *her* *prostitution* *.*
*She* *asked* *herself* *as* *she* *walked* *along* *,* *"* *What* *am* *I* *going* *to* *say* *?*
*She* *collected* *her* *thoughts* *for* *one* *moment* *,* *and* *,* *strengthening* *herself* *by* *the* *feeling* *of* *present* *necessity* *,* *went* *in* *.*
*Then* *he* *began* *a* *long* *explanation* *of* *his* *conduct* *,* *excusing* *himself* *in* *vague* *terms* *,* *in* *default* *of* *being* *able* *to* *invent* *better* *.*
*She* *was* *betraying* *,* *ruining* *herself* *.*
*For* *you* *love* *yourself* *;* *you* *live* *well* *.*
*``* *I* *have* *n't* *got* *them* *,* *''* *replied* *Rodolphe* *,* *with* *that* *perfect* *calm* *with* *which* *resigned* *rage* *covers* *itself* *as* *with* *a* *shield* *.*
*Madness* *was* *coming* *upon* *her* *;* *she* *grew* *afraid* *,* *and* *managed* *to* *recover* *herself* *,* *in* *a* *confused* *way* *,* *it* *is* *true* *,* *for* *she* *did* *not* *in* *the* *least* *remember* *the* *cause* *of* *the* *terrible* *condition* *she* *was* *in* *,* *that* *is* *to* *say* *,* *the* *question* *of* *money* *.*
*She* *was* *studying* *herself* *curiously* *,* *to* *see* *if* *she* *were* *not* *suffering* *.*
*Her* *shoulders* *were* *shaken* *by* *a* *strong* *shuddering* *,* *and* *she* *was* *growing* *paler* *than* *the* *sheets* *in* *which* *her* *clenched* *fingers* *buried* *themselves* *.*
*He* *threw* *himself* *on* *his* *knees* *by* *her* *bed* *.*
*``* *Bring* *me* *the* *child* *,* *''* *she* *said* *,* *raising* *herself* *on* *her* *elbow* *.*
*At* *last* *,* *when* *Canivet* *came* *in* *,* *he* *threw* *himself* *into* *his* *arms* *.*
*He* *sent* *quickly* *to* *the* *``* *Lion* *d* *'Or* *''* *for* *some* *pigeons* *;* *to* *the* *butcher* *'s* *for* *all* *the* *cutlets* *that* *were* *to* *be* *had* *;* *to* *Tuvache* *for* *cream* *;* *and* *to* *Lestiboudois* *for* *eggs* *;* *and* *the* *druggist* *himself* *aided* *in* *the* *preparations* *,* *while* *Madame* *Homais* *was* *saying* *as* *she* *pulled* *together* *the* *strings* *of* *her* *jacket* *-*
*``* *But* *how* *did* *she* *poison* *herself* *?* *''*
*But* *suddenly* *controlling* *himself* *-*
*"* *I* *have* *even* *read* *that* *various* *persons* *have* *found* *themselves* *under* *toxicological* *symptoms* *,* *and* *,* *as* *it* *were* *,* *thunderstricken* *by* *black-pudding* *that* *had* *been* *subjected* *to* *a* *too* *vehement* *fumigation* *.*
*At* *last* *the* *three* *horses* *started* *;* *and* *it* *was* *the* *general* *opinion* *that* *he* *had* *not* *shown* *himself* *at* *all* *obliging* *.*
*Emma* *,* *her* *chin* *sunken* *upon* *her* *breast* *,* *had* *her* *eyes* *inordinately* *wide* *open* *,* *and* *her* *poor* *hands* *wandered* *over* *the* *sheets* *with* *that* *hideous* *and* *soft* *movement* *of* *the* *dying* *,* *that* *seems* *as* *if* *they* *wanted* *already* *to* *cover* *themselves* *with* *the* *shroud* *.*
*Her* *chest* *soon* *began* *panting* *rapidly* *;* *the* *whole* *of* *her* *tongue* *protruded* *from* *her* *mouth* *;* *her* *eyes* *,* *as* *they* *rolled* *,* *grew* *paler* *,* *like* *the* *two* *globes* *of* *a* *lamp* *that* *is* *going* *out* *,* *so* *that* *one* *might* *have* *thought* *her* *already* *dead* *but* *for* *the* *fearful* *labouring* *of* *her* *ribs* *,* *shaken* *by* *violent* *breathing* *,* *as* *if* *the* *soul* *were* *struggling* *to* *free* *itself* *.*
*Emma* *raised* *herself* *like* *a* *galvanised* *corpse* *,* *her* *hair* *undone* *,* *her* *eyes* *fixed* *,* *staring* *.*
*But* *still* *,* *when* *he* *saw* *that* *she* *did* *not* *move* *,* *Charles* *threw* *himself* *upon* *her* *,* *crying* *-*
*``* *Restrain* *yourself* *!* *''*
*Weaker* *than* *a* *child* *,* *Charles* *let* *himself* *be* *led* *downstairs* *into* *the* *sitting-room* *,* *and* *Monsieur* *Homais* *soon* *went* *home* *.*
*On* *the* *Place* *he* *was* *accosted* *by* *the* *blind* *man* *,* *who* *,* *having* *dragged* *himself* *as* *far* *as* *Yonville* *,* *in* *the* *hope* *of* *getting* *the* *antiphlogistic* *pomade* *,* *was* *asking* *every* *passer-by* *where* *the* *druggist* *lived* *.*
*``* *Now* *,* *''* *said* *the* *chemist* *,* *``* *you* *ought* *yourself* *to* *fix* *the* *hour* *for* *the* *ceremony* *.* *''*
*Homais* *,* *to* *keep* *himself* *in* *countenance* *,* *took* *up* *a* *water-bottle* *on* *the* *whatnot* *to* *water* *the* *geraniums* *.*
*He* *shut* *himself* *up* *in* *his* *consulting-room* *,* *took* *a* *pen* *,* *and* *after* *sobbing* *for* *some* *time* *,* *wrote* *-*
*He* *threw* *himself* *upon* *it* *and* *fell* *asleep* *.*
*He* *stood* *opposite* *her* *,* *the* *better* *to* *see* *her* *,* *and* *he* *lost* *himself* *in* *a* *contemplation* *so* *deep* *that* *it* *was* *no* *longer* *painful* *.*
*At* *last* *,* *stiffening* *himself* *against* *emotion* *,* *Homais* *gave* *two* *or* *three* *great* *cuts* *at* *random* *that* *left* *white* *patches* *amongst* *that* *beautiful* *black* *hair* *.*
*He* *was* *dizzy* *;* *he* *heard* *voices* *round* *about* *him* *;* *he* *felt* *himself* *going* *mad* *.*
*At* *Quincampoix* *,* *to* *give* *himself* *heart* *,* *he* *drank* *three* *cups* *of* *coffee* *one* *after* *the* *other* *.*
*The* *poor* *fellow* *tried* *to* *show* *himself* *brave* *,* *and* *repeated* *several* *times* *.*
*Yet* *he* *tried* *to* *stir* *himself* *to* *a* *feeling* *of* *devotion* *,* *to* *throw* *himself* *into* *the* *hope* *of* *a* *future* *life* *in* *which* *he* *should* *see* *her* *again* *.*
*At* *times* *he* *thought* *he* *felt* *nothing* *more* *,* *and* *he* *enjoyed* *this* *lull* *in* *his* *pain* *,* *whilst* *at* *the* *same* *time* *he* *reproached* *himself* *for* *being* *a* *wretch* *.*
*They* *ranged* *themselves* *all* *round* *;* *and* *while* *the* *priest* *spoke* *,* *the* *red* *soil* *thrown* *up* *at* *the* *sides* *kept* *noiselessly* *slipping* *down* *at* *the* *corners* *.*
*He* *sent* *her* *kisses* *;* *he* *dragged* *himself* *towards* *the* *grave* *,* *to* *engulf* *himself* *with* *her* *.*
*Rodolphe* *,* *who* *,* *to* *distract* *himself* *,* *had* *been* *rambling* *about* *the* *wood* *all* *day* *,* *was* *sleeping* *quietly* *in* *his* *chateau* *,* *and* *Leon* *,* *down* *yonder* *,* *always* *slept* *.*
*Money* *troubles* *soon* *began* *again* *,* *Monsieur* *Lheureux* *urging* *on* *anew* *his* *friend* *Vincart* *,* *and* *Charles* *pledged* *himself* *for* *exorbitant* *sums* *;* *for* *he* *would* *never* *consent* *to* *let* *the* *smallest* *of* *the* *things* *that* *had* *belonged* *to* *HER* *be* *sold* *.*
*Felicite* *now* *wore* *Madame* *Bovary* *'s* *gowns* *;* *not* *all* *,* *for* *he* *had* *kept* *some* *of* *them* *,* *and* *he* *went* *to* *look* *at* *them* *in* *her* *dressing-room* *,* *locking* *himself* *up* *there* *;* *she* *was* *about* *her* *height* *,* *and* *often* *Charles* *,* *seeing* *her* *from* *behind* *,* *was* *seized* *with* *an* *illusion* *,* *and* *cried* *out* *-*
*The* *blind* *man* *,* *whom* *he* *had* *not* *been* *able* *to* *cure* *with* *the* *pomade* *,* *had* *gone* *back* *to* *the* *hill* *of* *Bois-Guillaume* *,* *where* *he* *told* *the* *travellers* *of* *the* *vain* *attempt* *of* *the* *druggist* *,* *to* *such* *an* *extent* *,* *that* *Homais* *when* *he* *went* *to* *town* *hid* *himself* *behind* *the* *curtains* *of* *the* *``* *Hirondelle* *''* *to* *avoid* *meeting* *him* *.*
*He* *busied* *himself* *with* *great* *questions* *:* *the* *social* *problem* *,* *moralisation* *of* *the* *poorer* *classes* *,* *pisciculture* *,* *caoutchouc* *,* *railways* *,* *etc* *.* *He* *even* *began* *to* *blush* *at* *being* *a* *bourgeois* *.*
*``* *In* *short* *!* *''* *he* *cried* *,* *making* *a* *pirouette* *,* *``* *if* *it* *were* *only* *for* *distinguishing* *myself* *at* *fires* *!* *''*
*He* *sold* *himself* *-* *in* *a* *word* *,* *prostituted* *himself* *.*
*Then* *they* *said* *``* *he* *shut* *himself* *up* *to* *drink* *.* *''*
*He* *questioned* *himself* *;* *he* *sought* *to* *divine* *who* *could* *have* *been* *that* *soul* *in* *torment* *which* *had* *not* *been* *willing* *to* *quit* *this* *world* *without* *leaving* *this* *stigma* *of* *crime* *or* *unhappiness* *upon* *the* *brow* *of* *the* *ancient* *church* *.*
*Thousands* *of* *good* *,* *calm* *,* *bourgeois* *faces* *thronged* *the* *windows* *,* *the* *doors* *,* *the* *dormer* *windows* *,* *the* *roofs* *,* *gazing* *at* *the* *palace* *,* *gazing* *at* *the* *populace* *,* *and* *asking* *nothing* *more* *;* *for* *many* *Parisians* *content* *themselves* *with* *the* *spectacle* *of* *the* *spectators* *,* *and* *a* *wall* *behind* *which* *something* *is* *going* *on* *becomes* *at* *once* *,* *for* *us* *,* *a* *very* *curious* *thing* *indeed* *.*
*The* *two* *extremities* *of* *this* *gigantic* *parallelogram* *were* *occupied* *,* *the* *one* *by* *the* *famous* *marble* *table* *,* *so* *long* *,* *so* *broad* *,* *and* *so* *thick* *that* *,* *as* *the* *ancient* *land* *rolls* ** ** *in* *a* *style* *that* *would* *have* *given* *Gargantua* *an* *appetite* ** ** *say* *,* *``* *such* *a* *slice* *of* *marble* *as* *was* *never* *beheld* *in* *the* *world* *''* *;* *the* *other* *by* *the* *chapel* *where* *Louis* *XI.* *had* *himself* *sculptured* *on* *his* *knees* *before* *the* *Virgin* *,* *and* *whither* *he* *caused* *to* *be* *brought* *,* *without* *heeding* *the* *two* *gaps* *thus* *made* *in* *the* *row* *of* *royal* *statues* *,* *the* *statues* *of* *Charlemagne* *and* *of* *Saint* *Louis* *,* *two* *saints* *whom* *he* *supposed* *to* *be* *great* *in* *favor* *in* *heaven* *,* *as* *kings* *of* *France* *.*
*Among* *the* *rest* *there* *was* *a* *group* *of* *those* *merry* *imps* *,* *who* *,* *after* *smashing* *the* *glass* *in* *a* *window* *,* *had* *seated* *themselves* *hardily* *on* *the* *entablature* *,* *and* *from* *that* *point* *despatched* *their* *gaze* *and* *their* *railleries* *both* *within* *and* *without* *,* *upon* *the* *throng* *in* *the* *hall* *,* *and* *the* *throng* *upon* *the* *Place* *.*
*Then* *a* *great* *hurly* ** *burly* *ensued* *;* *a* *vast* *movement* *of* *feet* *,* *hands* *,* *and* *heads* *;* *a* *general* *outbreak* *of* *coughs* *and* *handkerchiefs* *;* *each* *one* *arranged* *himself* *,* *assumed* *his* *post* *,* *raised* *himself* *up* *,* *and* *grouped* *himself* *.*
*The* *crowd* *hurled* *itself* *towards* *them* *,* *and* *they* *already* *beheld* *the* *frail* *wooden* *railing* *,* *which* *separated* *them* *from* *it* *,* *giving* *way* *and* *bending* *before* *the* *pressure* *of* *the* *throng* *.*
*The* *author* *of* *the* *``* *Cid* *''* *could* *not* *have* *said* *``* *Pierre* *Corneille* *''* *with* *more* *pride* *.* *Our* *readers* *have* *been* *able* *to* *observe* *,* *that* *a* *certain* *amount* *of* *time* *must* *have* *already* *elapsed* *from* *the* *moment* *when* *Jupiter* *had* *retired* *beneath* *the* *tapestry* *to* *the* *instant* *when* *the* *author* *of* *the* *new* *morality* *had* *thus* *abruptly* *revealed* *himself* *to* *the* *innocent* *admiration* *of* *Gisquette* *and* *Linarde* *.*
*The* *music* *of* *high* *and* *low* *instruments* *immediately* *became* *audible* *from* *the* *interior* *of* *the* *stage* *;* *the* *tapestry* *was* *raised* *;* *four* *personages* *,* *in* *motley* *attire* *and* *painted* *faces* *,* *emerged* *from* *it* *,* *climbed* *the* *steep* *ladder* *of* *the* *theatre* *,* *and* *,* *arrived* *upon* *the* *upper* *platform* *,* *arranged* *themselves* *in* *a* *line* *before* *the* *public* *,* *whom* *they* *saluted* *with* *profound* *reverences* *;* *then* *the* *symphony* *ceased* *.*
*A* *tattered* *mendicant* *,* *who* *could* *not* *collect* *any* *coins* *,* *lost* *as* *he* *was* *in* *the* *midst* *of* *the* *crowd* *,* *and* *who* *had* *not* *probably* *found* *sufficient* *indemnity* *in* *the* *pockets* *of* *his* *neighbors* *,* *had* *hit* *upon* *the* *idea* *of* *perching* *himself* *upon* *some* *conspicuous* *point* *,* *in* *order* *to* *attract* *looks* *and* *alms* *.*
*He* *had* *,* *accordingly* *,* *hoisted* *himself* *,* *during* *the* *first* *verses* *of* *the* *prologue* *,* *with* *the* *aid* *of* *the* *pillars* *of* *the* *reserve* *gallery* *,* *to* *the* *cornice* *which* *ran* *round* *the* *balustrade* *at* *its* *lower* *edge* *;* *and* *there* *he* *had* *seated* *himself* *,* *soliciting* *the* *attention* *and* *the* *pity* *of* *the* *multitude* *,* *with* *his* *rags* *and* *a* *hideous* *sore* *which* *covered* *his* *right* *arm* *.*
*On* *recovering* *from* *his* *first* *stupefaction* *,* *he* *bestirred* *himself* *to* *shout* *,* *to* *the* *four* *personages* *on* *the* *stage* *,* *``* *Go* *on* *!* *What* *the* *devil* *!* ** ** *go* *on* *!* *''* ** ** *without* *even* *deigning* *to* *cast* *a* *glance* *of* *disdain* *upon* *the* *two* *interrupters* *.*
*A* *true* *eclectic* *,* *as* *it* *would* *be* *expressed* *nowadays* *,* *Gringoire* *was* *one* *of* *those* *firm* *and* *lofty* *,* *moderate* *and* *calm* *spirits* *,* *which* *always* *know* *how* *to* *bear* *themselves* *amid* *all* *circumstances* *(* *~* *stare* *in* *dimidio* *rerum* *~* *)* *,* *and* *who* *are* *full* *of* *reason* *and* *of* *liberal* *philosophy* *,* *while* *still* *setting* *store* *by* *cardinals* *.*
*Nevertheless* *,* *he* *was* *a* *fine* *man* *;* *he* *led* *a* *joyous* *cardinal* *'s* *life* *,* *liked* *to* *enliven* *himself* *with* *the* *royal* *vintage* *of* *Challuau* *,* *did* *not* *hate* *Richarde* *la* *Garmoise* *and* *Thomasse* *la* *Saillarde* *,* *bestowed* *alms* *on* *pretty* *girls* *rather* *than* *on* *old* *women* *,* ** ** *and* *for* *all* *these* *reasons* *was* *very* *agreeable* *to* *the* *populace* *of* *Paris* *.*
*So* *he* *turned* *toward* *the* *door* *,* *and* *with* *the* *best* *grace* *in* *the* *world* *(* *so* *well* *had* *he* *trained* *himself* *to* *it* *)* *,* *when* *the* *usher* *announced* *,* *in* *a* *sonorous* *voice* *,* *``* *Messieurs* *the* *Envoys* *of* *Monsieur* *the* *Duke* *of* *Austria* *.* *''* *It* *is* *useless* *to* *add* *that* *the* *whole* *hall* *did* *the* *same* *.*
*While* *the* *pensioner* *of* *Ghent* *and* *his* *eminence* *were* *exchanging* *very* *low* *bows* *and* *a* *few* *words* *in* *voices* *still* *lower* *,* *a* *man* *of* *lofty* *stature* *,* *with* *a* *large* *face* *and* *broad* *shoulders* *,* *presented* *himself* *,* *in* *order* *to* *enter* *abreast* *with* *Guillaume* *Rym* *;* *one* *would* *have* *pronounced* *him* *a* *bull* ** *dog* *by* *the* *side* *of* *a* *fox* *.*
*The* *arrival* *of* *the* *illustrious* *guests* *had* *by* *no* *means* *caused* *him* *to* *relax* *his* *hold* *,* *and* *,* *while* *the* *prelates* *and* *ambassadors* *were* *packing* *themselves* *into* *the* *stalls* ** ** *like* *genuine* *Flemish* *herrings* ** ** *he* *settled* *himself* *at* *his* *ease* *,* *and* *boldly* *crossed* *his* *legs* *on* *the* *architrave* *.*
*Now* *,* *chance* *ordained* *that* *the* *master* *hosier* *of* *Ghent* *,* *with* *whom* *the* *people* *were* *already* *in* *lively* *sympathy* *,* *and* *upon* *whom* *all* *eyes* *were* *riveted* ** ** *should* *come* *and* *seat* *himself* *in* *the* *front* *row* *of* *the* *gallery* *,* *directly* *above* *the* *mendicant* *;* *and* *people* *were* *not* *a* *little* *amazed* *to* *see* *the* *Flemish* *ambassador* *,* *on* *concluding* *his* *inspection* *of* *the* *knave* *thus* *placed* *beneath* *his* *eyes* *,* *bestow* *a* *friendly* *tap* *on* *that* *ragged* *shoulder* *.*
*This* *semi* ** *approbation* *sufficed* *for* *Gringoire* *,* *and* *,* *conducting* *his* *own* *affairs* *,* *he* *began* *to* *shout* *,* *confounding* *himself* *with* *the* *crowd* *as* *much* *as* *possible* *:* *``* *Begin* *the* *mystery* *again* *!* *begin* *again* *!* *''*
*But* *Gringoire* *had* *multiplied* *himself* *,* *and* *only* *shouted* *the* *more* *vigorously* *:* *``* *Begin* *again* *!* *begin* *again* *!* *''*
*Both* *parties* *were* *forced* *to* *resign* *themselves* *.*
*The* *four* *personages* *of* *the* *prologue* *were* *bewailing* *themselves* *in* *their* *mortal* *embarrassment* *,* *when* *Venus* *in* *person* *,* *(* *~* *vera* *incessa* *patuit* *dea* *~* *)* *presented* *herself* *to* *them* *,* *clad* *in* *a* *fine* *robe* *bearing* *the* *heraldic* *device* *of* *the* *ship* *of* *the* *city* *of* *Paris* *.*
*She* *had* *come* *herself* *to* *claim* *the* *dolphin* *promised* *to* *the* *most* *beautiful* *.*
*He* *had* *hardened* *himself* *against* *adversity* *.* ** ** ** *``* *Continue* *!* *''* *he* *had* *said* *for* *the* *third* *time* *,* *to* *his* *comedians* *,* *speaking* *machines* *;* *then* *as* *he* *was* *marching* *with* *great* *strides* *in* *front* *of* *the* *marble* *table* *,* *a* *fancy* *seized* *him* *to* *go* *and* *appear* *in* *his* *turn* *at* *the* *aperture* *of* *the* *chapel* *,* *were* *it* *only* *for* *the* *pleasure* *of* *making* *a* *grimace* *at* *that* *ungrateful* *populace* *.* ** ** *``* *But* *no* *,* *that* *would* *not* *be* *worthy* *of* *us* *;* *no* *,* *vengeance* *!* *let* *us* *combat* *until* *the* *end* *,* *''* *he* *repeated* *to* *himself* *;* *"* *the* *power* *of* *poetry* *over* *people* *is* *great* *;* *I* *will* *bring* *them* *back* *.*
*Gringoire* *was* *forced* *to* *content* *himself* *with* *this* *eulogy* *;* *for* *a* *thunder* *of* *applause* *,* *mingled* *with* *a* *prodigious* *acclamation* *,* *cut* *their* *conversation* *short* *.*
*Master* *Coppenole* *himself* *applauded* *,* *and* *Clopin* *Trouillefou* *,* *who* *had* *been* *among* *the* *competitors* *(* *and* *God* *knows* *what* *intensity* *of* *ugliness* *his* *visage* *could* *attain* *)* *,* *confessed* *himself* *conquered* *:* *We* *will* *do* *the* *same* *.*
*Quasimodo* *contented* *himself* *with* *taking* *him* *by* *the* *girdle* *,* *and* *hurling* *him* *ten* *paces* *off* *amid* *the* *crowd* *;* *all* *without* *uttering* *a* *word* *.*
*``* *What* *a* *devil* *of* *a* *man* *!* *''* *said* *Robin* *Poussepain* *still* *all* *bruised* *with* *his* *fall* *.* *"* *He* *shows* *himself* *;* *he* *'s* *a* *hunchback* *.*
*Then* *they* *made* *him* *seat* *himself* *on* *a* *motley* *litter* *.*
*Gringoire* *bore* *this* *new* *disaster* *heroically* *;* *he* *picked* *himself* *up* *,* *and* *reached* *the* *water* *'s* *edge* *.*
*``* *Oh* *!* *''* *said* *he* *,* *``* *I* *would* *gladly* *drown* *myself* *,* *were* *the* *water* *not* *so* *cold* *!* *''*
*``* *At* *least* *,* *''* *he* *said* *to* *himself* *,* *"* *I* *shall* *there* *have* *a* *firebrand* *of* *joy* *wherewith* *to* *warm* *myself* *,* *and* *I* *can* *sup* *on* *some* *crumbs* *of* *the* *three* *great* *armorial* *bearings* *of* *royal* *sugar* *which* *have* *been* *erected* *on* *the* *public* *refreshment* ** *stall* *of* *the* *city* *.*
*Just* *see* *if* *those* *boobies* *will* *put* *themselves* *out* *!* *Move* *aside* *!*
*They* *are* *warming* *themselves* *,* *much* *pleasure* *may* *it* *give* *them* *!*
*And* *,* *seating* *herself* *,* *she* *gracefully* *presented* *her* *tambourine* *to* *the* *goat* *.*
*Djali* *reared* *himself* *on* *his* *hind* *legs* *,* *and* *began* *to* *bleat* *,* *marching* *along* *with* *so* *much* *dainty* *gravity* *,* *that* *the* *entire* *circle* *of* *spectators* *burst* *into* *a* *laugh* *at* *this* *parody* *of* *the* *interested* *devoutness* *of* *the* *captain* *of* *pistoliers* *.*
*The* *goat* *seated* *himself* *on* *his* *hind* *quarters* *,* *and* *began* *to* *bleat* *,* *waving* *his* *fore* *feet* *in* *so* *strange* *a* *manner* *,* *that* *,* *with* *the* *exception* *of* *the* *bad* *French* *,* *and* *worse* *Latin* *,* *Jacques* *Charmolue* *was* *there* *complete* *,* ** ** *gesture* *,* *accent* *,* *and* *attitude* *.*
*``* *Will* *you* *take* *yourself* *off* *,* *you* *Egyptian* *grasshopper* *?* *''* *cried* *a* *sharp* *voice* *,* *which* *proceeded* *from* *the* *darkest* *corner* *of* *the* *Place* *.*
*No* *supper* *,* *no* *shelter* *;* *he* *saw* *himself* *pressed* *on* *all* *sides* *by* *necessity* *,* *and* *he* *found* *necessity* *very* *crabbed* *.*
*Only* *joy* *made* *itself* *felt* *,* *only* *pride* *dominated* *.*
*He* *'ll* *get* *himself* *devoured* *!* *"*
*The* *formidable* *Quasimodo* *had* *hurled* *himself* *from* *the* *litter* *,* *and* *the* *women* *turned* *aside* *their* *eyes* *in* *order* *not* *to* *see* *him* *tear* *the* *archdeacon* *asunder* *.*
*Quasimodo* *placed* *himself* *in* *front* *of* *the* *priest* *,* *set* *in* *play* *the* *muscles* *of* *his* *athletic* *fists* *,* *and* *glared* *upon* *the* *assailants* *with* *the* *snarl* *of* *an* *angry* *tiger* *.*
*Quasimodo* *then* *constituted* *himself* *the* *rearguard* *,* *and* *followed* *the* *archdeacon* *,* *walking* *backwards* *,* *squat* *,* *surly* *,* *monstrous* *,* *bristling* *,* *gathering* *up* *his* *limbs* *,* *licking* *his* *boar* *'s* *tusks* *,* *growling* *like* *a* *wild* *beast* *,* *and* *imparting* *to* *the* *crowd* *immense* *vibrations* *,* *with* *a* *look* *or* *a* *gesture* *.*
*There* *was* *in* *this* *voluntary* *abdication* *of* *his* *freewill* *,* *in* *this* *fancy* *submitting* *itself* *to* *another* *fancy* *,* *which* *suspects* *it* *not* *,* *a* *mixture* *of* *fantastic* *independence* *and* *blind* *obedience* *,* *something* *indescribable* *,* *intermediate* *between* *slavery* *and* *liberty* *,* *which* *pleased* *Gringoire* *,* ** ** *a* *spirit* *essentially* *compound* *,* *undecided* *,* *and* *complex* *,* *holding* *the* *extremities* *of* *all* *extremes* *,* *incessantly* *suspended* *between* *all* *human* *propensities* *,* *and* *neutralizing* *one* *by* *the* *other* *.*
*He* *was* *fond* *of* *comparing* *himself* *to* *Mahomet* *'s* *coffin* *,* *attracted* *in* *two* *different* *directions* *by* *two* *loadstones* *,* *and* *hesitating* *eternally* *between* *the* *heights* *and* *the* *depths* *,* *between* *the* *vault* *and* *the* *pavement* *,* *between* *fall* *and* *ascent* *,* *between* *zenith* *and* *nadir* *.*
*The* *gypsy* *gracefully* *raised* *herself* *upright* *upon* *the* *officer* *'s* *saddle* *,* *placed* *both* *hands* *upon* *the* *young* *man* *'s* *shoulders* *,* *and* *gazed* *fixedly* *at* *him* *for* *several* *seconds* *,* *as* *though* *enchanted* *with* *his* *good* *looks* *and* *with* *the* *aid* *which* *he* *had* *just* *rendered* *her* *.*
*``* *Captain* *Phoebus* *de* *Chteaupers* *,* *at* *your* *service* *,* *my* *beauty* *!* *''* *replied* *the* *officer* *,* *drawing* *himself* *up* *.*
*Moreover* *,* *his* *hand* *was* *tolerably* *free* *;* *he* *stopped* *up* *his* *nose* *and* *resigned* *himself* *.*
*Gringoire* *who* *was* *not* *quite* *dead* *yet* *,* *half* *raised* *himself* *.*
*There* *is* *my* *pallet* *burning* *.* *``* *And* *comparing* *himself* *to* *the* *pilot* *who* *suffers* *shipwreck* *by* *night* *,* *''* *~* *Salve* *~* *,* *``* *he* *added* *piously* *,* *''* *~* *salve* *,* *maris* *stella* *~* *!* *"*
*And* *then* *,* *in* *proportion* *as* *he* *plunged* *deeper* *into* *the* *street* *,* *cripples* *in* *bowls* *,* *blind* *men* *and* *lame* *men* *,* *swarmed* *about* *him* *,* *and* *men* *with* *one* *arm* *,* *and* *with* *one* *eye* *,* *and* *the* *leprous* *with* *their* *sores* *,* *some* *emerging* *from* *little* *streets* *adjacent* *,* *some* *from* *the* *air* ** *holes* *of* *cellars* *,* *howling* *,* *bellowing* *,* *yelping* *,* *all* *limping* *and* *halting* *,* *all* *flinging* *themselves* *towards* *the* *light* *,* *and* *humped* *up* *in* *the* *mire* *,* *like* *snails* *after* *a* *shower* *.*
*Reality* *made* *its* *way* *to* *the* *light* *around* *him* *,* *struck* *his* *eyes* *,* *struck* *his* *feet* *,* *and* *demolished* *,* *bit* *by* *bit* *,* *all* *that* *frightful* *poetry* *with* *which* *he* *had* *,* *at* *first* *,* *believed* *himself* *to* *be* *surrounded* *.*
*He* *was* *forced* *to* *perceive* *that* *he* *was* *not* *walking* *in* *the* *Styx* *,* *but* *in* *mud* *,* *that* *he* *was* *elbowed* *not* *by* *demons* *,* *but* *by* *thieves* *;* *that* *it* *was* *not* *his* *soul* *which* *was* *in* *question* *,* *but* *his* *life* *(* *since* *he* *lacked* *that* *precious* *conciliator* *,* *which* *places* *itself* *so* *effectually* *between* *the* *bandit* *and* *the* *honest* *man* ** ** *a* *purse* *)* *.*
*The* *spectacle* *which* *presented* *itself* *to* *his* *eyes* *,* *when* *his* *ragged* *escort* *finally* *deposited* *him* *at* *the* *end* *of* *his* *trip* *,* *was* *not* *fitted* *to* *bear* *him* *back* *to* *poetry* *,* *even* *to* *the* *poetry* *of* *hell* *.*
*Justify* *yourself* *;* *announce* *your* *titles* *.* *"*
*Zounds* *!* *let* *yourself* *be* *hung* *,* *and* *do* *n't* *kick* *up* *such* *a* *row* *over* *it* *!* *"*
*Then* *he* *shouted* *shrilly* *:* *``* *Silence* *!* *''* *and* *,* *as* *the* *cauldron* *and* *the* *frying* ** *pan* *did* *not* *heed* *him* *,* *and* *continued* *their* *duet* *,* *he* *jumped* *down* *from* *his* *hogshead* *,* *gave* *a* *kick* *to* *the* *boiler* *,* *which* *rolled* *ten* *paces* *away* *bearing* *the* *child* *with* *it* *,* *a* *kick* *to* *the* *frying* ** *pan* *,* *which* *upset* *in* *the* *fire* *with* *all* *its* *grease* *,* *and* *gravely* *remounted* *his* *throne* *,* *without* *troubling* *himself* *about* *the* *stifled* *tears* *of* *the* *child* *,* *or* *the* *grumbling* *of* *the* *old* *woman* *,* *whose* *supper* *was* *wasting* *away* *in* *a* *fine* *white* *flame* *.*
*Trouillefou* *made* *a* *sign* *,* *and* *the* *duke* *,* *the* *emperor* *,* *and* *the* *passed* *masters* *of* *pickpockets* *,* *and* *the* *isolated* *robbers* *,* *came* *and* *ranged* *themselves* *around* *him* *in* *a* *horseshoe* *,* *of* *which* *Gringoire* *,* *still* *roughly* *held* *by* *the* *body* *,* *formed* *the* *centre* *.*
*Here* *is* *a* *means* *of* *extricating* *yourself* *from* *your* *predicament* *for* *the* *moment* *.*
*``* *Do* *you* *consent* *,* *''* *resumed* *Clopin* *,* *``* *to* *enroll* *yourself* *among* *the* *people* *of* *the* *knife* *?* *''*
*``* *You* *recognize* *yourself* *as* *a* *member* *of* *the* *free* *bourgeoisie* *?* *''* *** *added* *the* *King* *of* *Thunes* *.*
*Several* *thieves* *detached* *themselves* *from* *the* *circle* *,* *and* *returned* *a* *moment* *later* *.*
*``* *What* *are* *they* *going* *to* *do* *?* *''* *Gringoire* *asked* *himself* *with* *some* *uneasiness* *.*
*The* *band* *of* *thieves* *applauded* *Clopin* *'s* *words* *,* *and* *arranged* *themselves* *in* *a* *circle* *round* *the* *gibbet* *,* *with* *a* *laugh* *so* *pitiless* *that* *Gringoire* *perceived* *that* *he* *amused* *them* *too* *much* *not* *to* *have* *everything* *to* *fear* *from* *them* *.*
*Perceiving* *that* *no* *respite* *,* *nor* *reprieve* *,* *nor* *subterfuge* *was* *possible* *,* *he* *bravely* *decided* *upon* *his* *course* *of* *action* *;* *he* *wound* *his* *right* *foot* *round* *his* *left* *leg* *,* *raised* *himself* *on* *his* *left* *foot* *,* *and* *stretched* *out* *his* *arm* *:* *but* *at* *the* *moment* *when* *his* *hand* *touched* *the* *manikin* *,* *his* *body* *,* *which* *was* *now* *supported* *upon* *one* *leg* *only* *,* *wavered* *on* *the* *stool* *which* *had* *but* *three* *;* *he* *made* *an* *involuntary* *effort* *to* *support* *himself* *by* *the* *manikin* *,* *lost* *his* *balance* *,* *and* *fell* *heavily* *to* *the* *ground* *,* *deafened* *by* *the* *fatal* *vibration* *of* *the* *thousand* *bells* *of* *the* *manikin* *,* *which* *,* *yielding* *to* *the* *impulse* *imparted* *by* *his* *hand* *,* *described* *first* *a* *rotary* *motion* *,* *and* *then* *swayed* *majestically* *between* *the* *two* *posts* *.*
*``* *Now* *,* *''* *resumed* *Clopin* *Trouillefou* *,* *``* *as* *soon* *as* *I* *clap* *my* *hands* *,* *you* *,* *Andry* *the* *Red* *,* *will* *fling* *the* *stool* *to* *the* *ground* *with* *a* *blow* *of* *your* *knee* *;* *you* *,* *Franois* *Chante* ** *Prune* *,* *will* *cling* *to* *the* *feet* *of* *the* *rascal* *;* *and* *you* *,* *Bellevigne* *,* *will* *fling* *yourself* *on* *his* *shoulders* *;* *and* *all* *three* *at* *once* *,* *do* *you* *hear* *?* *''*
*``* *Are* *you* *ready* *?* *''* *said* *Clopin* *Trouillefou* *to* *the* *three* *thieves* *,* *who* *held* *themselves* *in* *readiness* *to* *fall* *upon* *Gringoire* *.*
*The* *vagabonds* *,* *male* *and* *female* *,* *ranged* *themselves* *gently* *along* *her* *path* *,* *and* *their* *brutal* *faces* *beamed* *beneath* *her* *glance* *.*
*A* *few* *moments* *later* *our* *poet* *found* *himself* *in* *a* *tiny* *arched* *chamber* *,* *very* *cosy* *,* *very* *warm* *,* *seated* *at* *a* *table* *which* *appeared* *to* *ask* *nothing* *better* *than* *to* *make* *some* *loans* *from* *a* *larder* *hanging* *near* *by* *,* *having* *a* *good* *bed* *in* *prospect* *,* *and* *alone* *with* *a* *pretty* *girl* *.*
*He* *began* *seriously* *to* *take* *himself* *for* *a* *personage* *in* *a* *fairy* *tale* *;* *he* *cast* *his* *eyes* *about* *him* *from* *time* *to* *time* *to* *time* *,* *as* *though* *to* *see* *if* *the* *chariot* *of* *fire* *,* *harnessed* *to* *two* ** *winged* *chimeras* *,* *which* *alone* *could* *have* *so* *rapidly* *transported* *him* *from* *Tartarus* *to* *Paradise* *,* *were* *still* *there* *.*
*At* *last* *she* *came* *and* *seated* *herself* *near* *the* *table* *,* *and* *Gringoire* *was* *able* *to* *scrutinize* *her* *at* *his* *ease* *.*
*``* *Can* *you* *ask* *me* *,* *adorable* *Esmeralda* *?* *''* *replied* *Gringoire* *,* *with* *so* *passionate* *an* *accent* *that* *he* *was* *himself* *astonished* *at* *it* *on* *hearing* *himself* *speak* *.*
*She* *bounded* *from* *one* *end* *of* *the* *tiny* *room* *to* *the* *other* *,* *stooped* *down* *,* *and* *raised* *herself* *again* *,* *with* *a* *little* *poniard* *in* *her* *hand* *,* *before* *Gringoire* *had* *even* *had* *time* *to* *see* *whence* *the* *poniard* *came* *;* *proud* *and* *angry* *,* *with* *swelling* *lips* *and* *inflated* *nostrils* *,* *her* *cheeks* *as* *red* *as* *an* *api* *apple* *,* *** *and* *her* *eyes* *darting* *lightnings* *.*
*At* *the* *same* *time* *,* *the* *white* *goat* *placed* *itself* *in* *front* *of* *her* *,* *and* *presented* *to* *Gringoire* *a* *hostile* *front* *,* *bristling* *with* *two* *pretty* *horns* *,* *gilded* *and* *very* *sharp* *.*
*She* *replied* *by* *a* *negative* *sign* *of* *the* *head* *,* *and* *her* *pensive* *glance* *fixed* *itself* *upon* *the* *vault* *of* *the* *ceiling* *.*
*Gringoire* *colored* *,* *and* *took* *the* *hint* *.* *It* *was* *evident* *that* *the* *young* *girl* *was* *alluding* *to* *the* *slight* *assistance* *which* *he* *had* *rendered* *her* *in* *the* *critical* *situation* *in* *which* *she* *had* *found* *herself* *two* *hours* *previously* *.*
*A* *fruit* *dealer* *gave* *me* *a* *plum* *here* *,* *a* *baker* *flung* *me* *a* *crust* *there* *;* *in* *the* *evening* *I* *got* *myself* *taken* *up* *by* *the* *watch* *,* *who* *threw* *me* *into* *prison* *,* *and* *there* *I* *found* *a* *bundle* *of* *straw* *.*
*In* *the* *winter* *I* *warmed* *myself* *in* *the* *sun* *,* *under* *the* *porch* *of* *the* *Htel* *de* *Sens* *,* *and* *I* *thought* *it* *very* *ridiculous* *that* *the* *fire* *on* *Saint* *John* *'s* *Day* *was* *reserved* *for* *the* *dog* *days* *.*
*There* *was* *no* *piece* *of* *furniture* *adapted* *to* *sleeping* *purposes* *,* *except* *a* *tolerably* *long* *wooden* *coffer* *;* *and* *its* *cover* *was* *carved* *,* *to* *boot* *;* *which* *afforded* *Gringoire* *,* *when* *he* *stretched* *himself* *out* *upon* *it* *,* *a* *sensation* *somewhat* *similar* *to* *that* *which* *Micromgas* *would* *feel* *if* *he* *were* *to* *lie* *down* *on* *the* *Alps* *.*
*``* *Come* *!* *''* *said* *he* *,* *adjusting* *himself* *as* *well* *as* *possible* *,* *"* *I* *must* *resign* *myself* *.*
*And* *,* *in* *the* *first* *place* *,* *to* *cite* *only* *a* *few* *leading* *examples* *,* *there* *certainly* *are* *few* *finer* *architectural* *pages* *than* *this* *faade* *,* *where* *,* *successively* *and* *at* *once* *,* *the* *three* *portals* *hollowed* *out* *in* *an* *arch* *;* *the* *broidered* *and* *dentated* *cordon* *of* *the* *eight* *and* *twenty* *royal* *niches* *;* *the* *immense* *central* *rose* *window* *,* *flanked* *by* *its* *two* *lateral* *windows* *,* *like* *a* *priest* *by* *his* *deacon* *and* *subdeacon* *;* *the* *frail* *and* *lofty* *gallery* *of* *trefoil* *arcades* *,* *which* *supports* *a* *heavy* *platform* *above* *its* *fine* *,* *slender* *columns* *;* *and* *lastly* *,* *the* *two* *black* *and* *massive* *towers* *with* *their* *slate* *penthouses* *,* *harmonious* *parts* *of* *a* *magnificent* *whole* *,* *superposed* *in* *five* *gigantic* *stories* *;* ** ** *develop* *themselves* *before* *the* *eye* *,* *in* *a* *mass* *and* *without* *confusion* *,* *with* *their* *innumerable* *details* *of* *statuary* *,* *carving* *,* *and* *sculpture* *,* *joined* *powerfully* *to* *the* *tranquil* *grandeur* *of* *the* *whole* *;* *a* *vast* *symphony* *in* *stone* *,* *so* *to* *speak* *;* *the* *colossal* *work* *of* *one* *man* *and* *one* *people* *,* *all* *together* *one* *and* *complex* *,* *like* *the* *Iliads* *and* *the* *Romanceros* *,* *whose* *sister* *it* *is* *;* *prodigious* *product* *of* *the* *grouping* *together* *of* *all* *the* *forces* *of* *an* *epoch* *,* *where* *,* *upon* *each* *stone* *,* *one* *sees* *the* *fancy* *of* *the* *workman* *disciplined* *by* *the* *genius* *of* *the* *artist* *start* *forth* *in* *a* *hundred* *fashions* *;* *a* *sort* *of* *human* *creation* *,* *in* *a* *word* *,* *powerful* *and* *fecund* *as* *the* *divine* *creation* *of* *which* *it* *seems* *to* *have* *stolen* *the* *double* *character* *,* ** ** *variety* *,* *eternity* *.*
*And* *if* *we* *ascend* *the* *cathedral* *,* *without* *mentioning* *a* *thousand* *barbarisms* *of* *every* *sort* *,* ** ** *what* *has* *become* *of* *that* *charming* *little* *bell* *tower* *,* *which* *rested* *upon* *the* *point* *of* *intersection* *of* *the* *cross* ** *roofs* *,* *and* *which* *,* *no* *less* *frail* *and* *no* *less* *bold* *than* *its* *neighbor* *(* *also* *destroyed* *)* *,* *the* *spire* *of* *the* *Sainte* ** *Chapelle* *,* *buried* *itself* *in* *the* *sky* *,* *farther* *forward* *than* *the* *towers* *,* *slender* *,* *pointed* *,* *sonorous* *,* *carved* *in* *open* *work* *.*
*One* *can* *distinguish* *on* *its* *ruins* *three* *sorts* *of* *lesions* *,* *all* *three* *of* *which* *cut* *into* *it* *at* *different* *depths* *;* *first* *,* *time* *,* *which* *has* *insensibly* *notched* *its* *surface* *here* *and* *there* *,* *and* *gnawed* *it* *everywhere* *;* *next* *,* *political* *and* *religious* *revolution* *,* *which* *,* *blind* *and* *wrathful* *by* *nature* *,* *have* *flung* *themselves* *tumultuously* *upon* *it* *,* *torn* *its* *rich* *garment* *of* *carving* *and* *sculpture* *,* *burst* *its* *rose* *windows* *,* *broken* *its* *necklace* *of* *arabesques* *and* *tiny* *figures* *,* *torn* *out* *its* *statues* *,* *sometimes* *because* *of* *their* *mitres* *,* *sometimes* *because* *of* *their* *crowns* *;* *lastly* *,* *fashions* *,* *even* *more* *grotesque* *and* *foolish* *,* *which* *,* *since* *the* *anarchical* *and* *splendid* *deviations* *of* *the* *Renaissance* *,* *have* *followed* *each* *other* *in* *the* *necessary* *decadence* *of* *architecture* *.*
*It* *is* *the* *old* *oak* *crowning* *itself* *,* *and* *which* *,* *to* *heap* *the* *measure* *full* *,* *is* *stung* *,* *bitten* *,* *and* *gnawed* *by* *caterpillars* *.*
*The* *Saxon* *architect* *completed* *the* *erection* *of* *the* *first* *pillars* *of* *the* *nave* *,* *when* *the* *pointed* *arch* *,* *which* *dates* *from* *the* *Crusade* *,* *arrived* *and* *placed* *itself* *as* *a* *conqueror* *upon* *the* *large* *Romanesque* *capitals* *which* *should* *support* *only* *round* *arches* *.*
*There* *are* *,* *invariably* *,* *two* *naves* *,* *which* *intersect* *in* *a* *cross* *,* *and* *whose* *upper* *portion* *,* *rounded* *into* *an* *apse* *,* *forms* *the* *choir* *;* *there* *are* *always* *the* *side* *aisles* *,* *for* *interior* *processions* *,* *for* *chapels* *,* ** ** *a* *sort* *of* *lateral* *walks* *or* *promenades* *where* *the* *principal* *nave* *discharges* *itself* *through* *the* *spaces* *between* *the* *pillars* *.*
*There* *they* *plant* *themselves* *squarely* *,* *cut* *themselves* *gardens* *from* *the* *fields* *,* *and* *take* *their* *ease* *.*
*In* *the* *sixteenth* *,* *it* *seems* *to* *retreat* *visibly* *,* *and* *to* *bury* *itself* *deeper* *and* *deeper* *in* *the* *old* *city* *,* *so* *thick* *had* *the* *new* *city* *already* *become* *outside* *of* *it* *.*
*But* *these* *are* *the* *principal* *masses* *which* *were* *then* *to* *be* *distinguished* *when* *the* *eye* *began* *to* *accustom* *itself* *to* *this* *tumult* *of* *edifices* *.*
*Thus* *the* *City* *first* *presented* *itself* *to* *the* *eye* *,* *with* *its* *stern* *to* *the* *east* *,* *and* *its* *prow* *to* *the* *west* *.*
*The* *ground* *of* *the* *University* *was* *hilly* *;* *Mount* *Sainte* ** *Genevive* *formed* *an* *enormous* *mound* *to* *the* *south* *;* *and* *it* *was* *a* *sight* *to* *see* *from* *the* *summit* *of* *Notre* ** *Dame* *how* *that* *throng* *of* *narrow* *and* *tortuous* *streets* *(* *to* ** *day* *the* *Latin* *Quarter* *)* *,* *those* *bunches* *of* *houses* *which* *,* *spread* *out* *in* *every* *direction* *from* *the* *top* *of* *this* *eminence* *,* *precipitated* *themselves* *in* *disorder* *,* *and* *almost* *perpendicularly* *down* *its* *flanks* *,* *nearly* *to* *the* *water* *'s* *edge* *,* *having* *the* *air* *,* *some* *of* *falling* *,* *others* *of* *clambering* *up* *again* *,* *and* *all* *of* *holding* *to* *one* *another* *.*
*But* *that* *which* *attracted* *the* *eye* *most* *of* *all* *,* *and* *fixed* *it* *for* *a* *long* *time* *on* *that* *point* *,* *was* *the* *abbey* *itself* *.*
*It* *is* *certain* *that* *this* *monastery* *,* *which* *had* *a* *grand* *air* *,* *both* *as* *a* *church* *and* *as* *a* *seignory* *;* *that* *abbatial* *palace* *,* *where* *the* *bishops* *of* *Paris* *counted* *themselves* *happy* *if* *they* *could* *pass* *the* *night* *;* *that* *refectory* *,* *upon* *which* *the* *architect* *had* *bestowed* *the* *air* *,* *the* *beauty* *,* *and* *the* *rose* *window* *of* *a* *cathedral* *;* *that* *elegant* *chapel* *of* *the* *Virgin* *;* *that* *monumental* *dormitory* *;* *those* *vast* *gardens* *;* *that* *portcullis* *;* *that* *drawbridge* *;* *that* *envelope* *of* *battlements* *which* *notched* *to* *the* *eye* *the* *verdure* *of* *the* *surrounding* *meadows* *;* *those* *courtyards* *,* *where* *gleamed* *men* *at* *arms* *,* *intermingled* *with* *golden* *copes* *;* ** ** *the* *whole* *grouped* *and* *clustered* *about* *three* *lofty* *spires* *,* *with* *round* *arches* *,* *well* *planted* *upon* *a* *Gothic* *apse* *,* *made* *a* *magnificent* *figure* *against* *the* *horizon* *.*
*Nevertheless* *,* *the* *remarkably* *pointed* *and* *lofty* *roof* *of* *the* *modern* *palace* *,* *bristling* *with* *carved* *eaves* *,* *covered* *with* *sheets* *of* *lead* *,* *where* *coiled* *a* *thousand* *fantastic* *arabesques* *of* *sparkling* *incrustations* *of* *gilded* *bronze* *,* *that* *roof* *,* *so* *curiously* *damascened* *,* *darted* *upwards* *gracefully* *from* *the* *midst* *of* *the* *brown* *ruins* *of* *the* *ancient* *edifice* *;* *whose* *huge* *and* *ancient* *towers* *,* *rounded* *by* *age* *like* *casks* *,* *sinking* *together* *with* *old* *age* *,* *and* *rending* *themselves* *from* *top* *to* *bottom* *,* *resembled* *great* *bellies* *unbuttoned* *.*
*Finally* *,* *the* *fourth* *compartment* *,* *which* *stretched* *itself* *out* *in* *the* *agglomeration* *of* *the* *roofs* *on* *the* *right* *bank* *,* *and* *which* *occupied* *the* *western* *angle* *of* *the* *enclosure* *,* *and* *the* *banks* *of* *the* *river* *down* *stream* *,* *was* *a* *fresh* *cluster* *of* *palaces* *and* *Htels* *pressed* *close* *about* *the* *base* *of* *the* *Louvre* *.*
*Behind* *the* *Bastille* *there* *were* *twenty* *hovels* *clustered* *round* *the* *curious* *sculptures* *of* *the* *Croix* ** *Faubin* *and* *the* *flying* *buttresses* *of* *the* *Abbey* *of* *Saint* ** *Antoine* *des* *Champs* *;* *then* *Popincourt* *,* *lost* *amid* *wheat* *fields* *;* *then* *la* *Courtille* *,* *a* *merry* *village* *of* *wine* ** *shops* *;* *the* *hamlet* *of* *Saint* ** *Laurent* *with* *its* *church* *whose* *bell* *tower* *,* *from* *afar* *,* *seemed* *to* *add* *itself* *to* *the* *pointed* *towers* *of* *the* *Porte* *Saint* ** *Martin* *;* *the* *Faubourg* *Saint* ** *Denis* *,* *with* *the* *vast* *enclosure* *of* *Saint* ** *Ladre* *;* *beyond* *the* *Montmartre* *Gate* *,* *the* *Grange* ** *Batelire* *,* *encircled* *with* *white* *walls* *;* *behind* *it* *,* *with* *its* *chalky* *slopes* *,* *Montmartre* *,* *which* *had* *then* *almost* *as* *many* *churches* *as* *windmills* *,* *and* *which* *has* *kept* *only* *the* *windmills* *,* *for* *society* *no* *longer* *demands* *anything* *but* *bread* *for* *the* *body* *.*
*But* *this* *splendid* *moment* *lasted* *only* *for* *a* *short* *time* *;* *the* *Renaissance* *was* *not* *impartial* *;* *it* *did* *not* *content* *itself* *with* *building* *,* *it* *wished* *to* *destroy* *;* *it* *is* *true* *that* *it* *required* *the* *room* *.*
*At* *the* *rate* *at* *which* *Paris* *is* *now* *proceeding* *,* *it* *will* *renew* *itself* *every* *fifty* *years* *.*
*Decretals* *digested* *,* *he* *flung* *himself* *upon* *medicine* *,* *on* *the* *liberal* *arts* *.*
*This* *catastrophe* *was* *a* *crisis* *in* *Claude* *'s* *existence* *.* *Orphaned* *,* *the* *eldest* *,* *head* *of* *the* *family* *at* *the* *age* *of* *nineteen* *,* *he* *felt* *himself* *rudely* *recalled* *from* *the* *reveries* *of* *school* *to* *the* *realities* *of* *this* *world* *.*
*He* *threw* *himself* *,* *therefore* *,* *into* *the* *love* *for* *his* *little* *Jehan* *with* *the* *passion* *of* *a* *character* *already* *profound* *,* *ardent* *,* *concentrated* *;* *that* *poor* *frail* *creature* *,* *pretty* *,* *fair* ** *haired* *,* *rosy* *,* *and* *curly* *,* ** ** *that* *orphan* *with* *another* *orphan* *for* *his* *only* *support* *,* *touched* *him* *to* *the* *bottom* *of* *his* *heart* *;* *and* *grave* *thinker* *as* *he* *was* *,* *he* *set* *to* *meditating* *upon* *Jehan* *with* *an* *infinite* *compassion* *.*
*He* *resolved* *to* *consecrate* *himself* *entirely* *to* *a* *future* *for* *which* *he* *was* *responsible* *in* *the* *sight* *of* *God* *,* *and* *never* *to* *have* *any* *other* *wife* *,* *anyother* *child* *than* *the* *happiness* *and* *fortune* *of* *his* *brother* *.*
*Therefore* *,* *he* *attached* *himself* *more* *closely* *than* *ever* *to* *the* *clerical* *profession* *.*
*It* *was* *a* *sort* *of* *investment* *of* *good* *works* *,* *which* *he* *was* *effecting* *in* *the* *name* *of* *his* *young* *brother* *;* *it* *was* *a* *stock* *of* *good* *works* *which* *he* *wished* *to* *amass* *in* *advance* *for* *him* *,* *in* *case* *the* *little* *rogue* *should* *some* *day* *find* *himself* *short* *of* *that* *coin* *,* *the* *only* *sort* *which* *is* *received* *at* *the* *toll* ** *bar* *of* *paradise* *.*
*When* *,* *still* *a* *little* *fellow* *,* *he* *had* *dragged* *himself* *tortuously* *and* *by* *jerks* *beneath* *the* *shadows* *of* *its* *vaults* *,* *he* *seemed* *,* *with* *his* *human* *face* *and* *his* *bestial* *limbs* *,* *the* *natural* *reptile* *of* *that* *humid* *and* *sombre* *pavement* *,* *upon* *which* *the* *shadow* *of* *the* *Romanesque* *capitals* *cast* *so* *many* *strange* *forms* *.*
*It* *is* *thus* *that* *,* *little* *by* *little* *,* *developing* *always* *in* *sympathy* *with* *the* *cathedral* *,* *living* *there* *,* *sleeping* *there* *,* *hardly* *ever* *leaving* *it* *,* *subject* *every* *hour* *to* *the* *mysterious* *impress* *,* *he* *came* *to* *resemble* *it* *,* *he* *incrusted* *himself* *in* *it* *,* *so* *to* *speak* *,* *and* *became* *an* *integral* *part* *of* *it* *.*
*For* *,* *in* *order* *not* *to* *make* *others* *laugh* *,* *the* *very* *moment* *that* *he* *found* *himself* *to* *be* *deaf* *,* *he* *resolved* *upon* *a* *silence* *which* *he* *only* *broke* *when* *he* *was* *alone* *.*
*From* *his* *very* *first* *steps* *among* *men* *,* *he* *had* *felt* *himself* *,* *later* *on* *he* *had* *seen* *himself* *,* *spewed* *out* *,* *blasted* *,* *rejected* *.*
*Quasimodo* *stationed* *himself* *in* *front* *of* *this* *open* *throat* *;* *he* *crouched* *and* *rose* *with* *the* *oscillations* *of* *the* *bell* *,* *breathed* *in* *this* *overwhelming* *breath* *,* *gazed* *by* *turns* *at* *the* *deep* *place* *,* *which* *swarmed* *with* *people* *,* *two* *hundred* *feet* *below* *him* *,* *and* *at* *that* *enormous* *,* *brazen* *tongue* *which* *came* *,* *second* *after* *second* *,* *to* *howl* *in* *his* *ear* *.*
*All* *of* *a* *sudden* *,* *the* *frenzy* *of* *the* *bell* *seized* *upon* *him* *;* *his* *look* *became* *extraordinary* *;* *he* *lay* *in* *wait* *for* *the* *great* *bell* *as* *it* *passed* *,* *as* *a* *spider* *lies* *in* *wait* *for* *a* *fly* *,* *and* *flung* *himself* *abruptly* *upon* *it* *,* *with* *might* *and* *main* *.*
*He* *was* *everywhere* *about* *it* *;* *in* *fact* *,* *he* *multiplied* *himself* *on* *all* *points* *of* *the* *structure* *.*
*When* *the* *poor* *bellringer* *became* *deaf* *,* *there* *had* *been* *established* *between* *him* *and* *Claude* *Frollo* *,* *a* *language* *of* *signs* *,* *mysterious* *and* *understood* *by* *themselves* *alone* *.*
*Again* *,* *he* *had* *set* *in* *movement* *a* *band* *of* *scholars* *,* *who* *had* *flung* *themselves* *upon* *a* *wine* ** *shop* *in* *classic* *fashion* *,* *quasi* *~* *classico* *excitati* *~* *,* *had* *then* *beaten* *the* *tavern* ** *keeper* *``* *with* *offensive* *cudgels* *,* *''* *and* *joyously* *pillaged* *the* *tavern* *,* *even* *to* *smashing* *in* *the* *hogsheads* *of* *wine* *in* *the* *cellar* *.*
*Claude* *,* *saddened* *and* *discouraged* *in* *his* *human* *affections* *,* *by* *all* *this* *,* *had* *flung* *himself* *eagerly* *into* *the* *arms* *of* *learning* *,* *that* *sister* *which* *,* *at* *least* *does* *not* *laugh* *in* *your* *face* *,* *and* *which* *always* *pays* *you* *,* *though* *in* *money* *that* *is* *sometimes* *a* *little* *hollow* *,* *for* *the* *attention* *which* *you* *have* *paid* *to* *her* *.*
*Then* *he* *had* *penetrated* *further* *,* *lower* *,* *beneath* *all* *that* *finished* *,* *material* *,* *limited* *knowledge* *;* *he* *had* *,* *perhaps* *,* *risked* *his* *soul* *,* *and* *had* *seated* *himself* *in* *the* *cavern* *at* *that* *mysterious* *table* *of* *the* *alchemists* *,* *of* *the* *astrologers* *,* *of* *the* *hermetics* *,* *of* *which* *Averros* *,* *Gillaume* *de* *Paris* *,* *and* *Nicolas* *Flamel* *hold* *the* *end* *in* *the* *Middle* *Ages* *;* *and* *which* *extends* *in* *the* *East* *,* *by* *the* *light* *of* *the* *seven* ** *branched* *candlestick* *,* *to* *Solomon* *,* *Pythagoras* *,* *and* *Zoroaster* *.*
*Furthermore* *,* *it* *is* *certain* *that* *the* *archdeacon* *had* *established* *himself* *in* *that* *one* *of* *the* *two* *towers* *which* *looks* *upon* *the* *Grve* *,* *just* *beside* *the* *frame* *for* *the* *bells* *,* *a* *very* *secret* *little* *cell* *,* *into* *which* *no* *one* *,* *not* *even* *the* *bishop* *,* *entered* *without* *his* *leave* *,* *it* *was* *said* *.*
*By* *profession* *as* *well* *as* *by* *character* *,* *he* *had* *always* *held* *himself* *aloof* *from* *women* *;* *he* *seemed* *to* *hate* *them* *more* *than* *ever* *.*
*The* *archdeacon* *had* *just* *seated* *himself* *,* *by* *the* *light* *of* *a* *three* ** *jetted* *copper* *lamp* *,* *before* *a* *vast* *coffer* *crammed* *with* *manuscripts* *.*
*``* *Monsieur* *,* *''* *returned* *the* *archdeacon* *,* *"* *if* *that* *be* *your* *motive* *,* *you* *would* *have* *done* *as* *well* *not* *to* *put* *yourself* *out* *of* *breath* *climbing* *my* *staircase* *.*
*``* *Whose* *archdeacon* *I* *am* *?* *''* *Dom* *Claude* *contented* *himself* *with* *replying* *,* *with* *tranquil* *hauteur* *.*
*Nevertheless* *,* *if* *the* *desire* *possesses* *you* *of* *putting* *yourself* *under* *discipline* *at* *your* *age* *,* *and* *of* *deciphering* *the* *formidable* *alphabet* *of* *the* *sages* *,* *come* *to* *me* *;* *it* *is* *well* *,* *I* *will* *make* *the* *effort* *.*
*We* *will* *content* *ourselves* *with* *the* *fragments* *of* *the* *book* *of* *Hermes* *which* *we* *have* *here* *.*
*When* *the* *memory* *of* *the* *first* *races* *felt* *itself* *overloaded* *,* *when* *the* *mass* *of* *reminiscences* *of* *the* *human* *race* *became* *so* *heavy* *and* *so* *confused* *that* *speech* *naked* *and* *flying* *,* *ran* *the* *risk* *of* *losing* *them* *on* *the* *way* *,* *men* *transcribed* *them* *on* *the* *soil* *in* *a* *manner* *which* *was* *at* *once* *the* *most* *visible* *,* *most* *durable* *,* *and* *most* *natural* *.*
*While* *Daedalus* *,* *who* *is* *force* *,* *measured* *;* *while* *Orpheus* *,* *who* *is* *intelligence* *,* *sang* *;* ** ** *the* *pillar* *,* *which* *is* *a* *letter* *;* *the* *arcade* *,* *which* *is* *a* *syllable* *;* *the* *pyramid* *,* *which* *is* *a* *word* *,* ** ** *all* *set* *in* *movement* *at* *once* *by* *a* *law* *of* *geometry* *and* *by* *a* *law* *of* *poetry* *,* *grouped* *themselves* *,* *combined* *,* *amalgamated* *,* *descended* *,* *ascended* *,* *placed* *themselves* *side* *by* *side* *on* *the* *soil* *,* *ranged* *themselves* *in* *stories* *in* *the* *sky* *,* *until* *they* *had* *written* *under* *the* *dictation* *of* *the* *general* *idea* *of* *an* *epoch* *,* *those* *marvellous* *books* *which* *were* *also* *marvellous* *edifices* *:* *the* *Pagoda* *of* *Eklinga* *,* *the* *Rhamseion* *of* *Egypt* *,* *the* *Temple* *of* *Solomon* *.*
*The* *hieroglyph* *deserts* *the* *cathedral* *,* *and* *betakes* *itself* *to* *blazoning* *the* *donjon* *keep* *,* *in* *order* *to* *lend* *prestige* *to* *feudalism* *.*
*Thought* *was* *then* *free* *only* *in* *this* *manner* *;* *hence* *it* *never* *wrote* *itself* *out* *completely* *except* *on* *the* *books* *called* *edifices* *.*
*Thought* *,* *under* *the* *form* *of* *edifice* *,* *could* *have* *beheld* *itself* *burned* *in* *the* *public* *square* *by* *the* *hands* *of* *the* *executioner* *,* *in* *its* *manuscript* *form* *,* *if* *it* *had* *been* *sufficiently* *imprudent* *to* *risk* *itself* *thus* *;* *thought* *,* *as* *the* *door* *of* *a* *church* *,* *would* *have* *been* *a* *spectator* *of* *the* *punishment* *of* *thought* *as* *a* *book* *.*
*Having* *thus* *only* *this* *resource* *,* *masonry* *,* *in* *order* *to* *make* *its* *way* *to* *the* *light* *,* *flung* *itself* *upon* *it* *from* *all* *quarters* *.*
*All* *other* *arts* *obeyed* *,* *and* *placed* *themselves* *under* *the* *discipline* *of* *architecture* *.*
*There* *was* *nothing* *down* *to* *poor* *poetry* *,* ** ** *properly* *speaking* *,* *that* *which* *persisted* *in* *vegetating* *in* *manuscripts* *,* ** ** *which* *was* *not* *forced* *,* *in* *order* *to* *make* *something* *of* *itself* *,* *to* *come* *and* *frame* *itself* *in* *the* *edifice* *in* *the* *shape* *of* *a* *hymn* *or* *of* *prose* *;* *the* *same* *part* *,* *after* *all* *,* *which* *the* *tragedies* *of* *AEschylus* *had* *played* *in* *the* *sacerdotal* *festivals* *of* *Greece* *;* *Genesis* *,* *in* *the* *temple* *of* *Solomon* *.*
*In* *the* *Hindu* *,* *Egyptian* *,* *or* *Romanesque* *architecture* *,* *one* *feels* *the* *priest* *,* *nothing* *but* *the* *priest* *,* *whether* *he* *calls* *himself* *Brahmin* *,* *Magian* *,* *or* *Pope* *.*
*Human* *thought* *discovers* *a* *mode* *of* *perpetuating* *itself* *,* *not* *only* *more* *durable* *and* *more* *resisting* *than* *architecture* *,* *but* *still* *more* *simple* *and* *easy* *.*
*Now* *it* *converts* *itself* *into* *a* *flock* *of* *birds* *,* *scatters* *itself* *to* *the* *four* *winds* *,* *and* *occupies* *all* *points* *of* *air* *and* *space* *at* *once* *.*
*And* *when* *one* *observes* *that* *this* *mode* *of* *expression* *is* *not* *only* *the* *most* *conservative* *,* *but* *also* *the* *most* *simple* *,* *the* *most* *convenient* *,* *the* *most* *practicable* *for* *all* *;* *when* *one* *reflects* *that* *it* *does* *not* *drag* *after* *it* *bulky* *baggage* *,* *and* *does* *not* *set* *in* *motion* *a* *heavy* *apparatus* *;* *when* *one* *compares* *thought* *forced* *,* *in* *order* *to* *transform* *itself* *into* *an* *edifice* *,* *to* *put* *in* *motion* *four* *or* *five* *other* *arts* *and* *tons* *of* *gold* *,* *a* *whole* *mountain* *of* *stones* *,* *a* *whole* *forest* *of* *timber* ** *work* *,* *a* *whole* *nation* *of* *workmen* *;* *when* *one* *compares* *it* *to* *the* *thought* *which* *becomes* *a* *book* *,* *and* *for* *which* *a* *little* *paper* *,* *a* *little* *ink* *,* *and* *a* *pen* *suffice* *,* ** ** *how* *can* *one* *be* *surprised* *that* *human* *intelligence* *should* *have* *quitted* *architecture* *for* *printing* *?*
*So* *they* *emancipate* *themselves* *,* *break* *the* *yoke* *of* *the* *architect* *,* *and* *take* *themselves* *off* *,* *each* *one* *in* *its* *own* *direction* *.*
*Thought* *emancipates* *itself* *in* *all* *directions* *at* *the* *same* *time* *as* *the* *arts* *.*
*With* *Michael* *Angelo* *dead* *,* *what* *does* *this* *miserable* *architecture* *,* *which* *survived* *itself* *in* *the* *state* *of* *a* *spectre* *,* *do* *?*
*Now* *,* *we* *ask* *,* *which* *of* *the* *three* *arts* *has* *really* *represented* *human* *thought* *for* *the* *last* *three* *centuries* *?* *which* *translates* *it* *?* *which* *expresses* *not* *only* *its* *literary* *and* *scholastic* *vagaries* *,* *but* *its* *vast* *,* *profound* *,* *universal* *movement* *?* *which* *constantly* *superposes* *itself* *,* *without* *a* *break* *,* *without* *a* *gap* *,* *upon* *the* *human* *race* *,* *which* *walks* *a* *monster* *with* *a* *thousand* *legs* *?* ** ** *Architecture* *or* *printing* *?*
*Let* *the* *reader* *now* *imagine* *what* *an* *investment* *of* *funds* *it* *would* *require* *to* *rewrite* *the* *architectural* *book* *;* *to* *cause* *thousands* *of* *edifices* *to* *swarm* *once* *more* *upon* *the* *soil* *;* *to* *return* *to* *those* *epochs* *when* *the* *throng* *of* *monuments* *was* *such* *,* *according* *to* *the* *statement* *of* *an* *eye* *witness* *,* *``* *that* *one* *would* *have* *said* *that* *the* *world* *in* *shaking* *itself* *,* *had* *cast* *off* *its* *old* *garments* *in* *order* *to* *cover* *itself* *with* *a* *white* *vesture* *of* *churches* *.* *''* *~* *Erat* *enim* *ut* *si* *mundus* *,* *ipse* *excutiendo* *semet* *,* *rejecta* *vetustate* *,* *candida* *ecclesiarum* *vestem* *indueret* *~* *.*
*He* *had* *clung* *to* *it* *,* *he* *had* *incorporated* *himself* *with* *it* *,* *he* *had* *so* *identified* *himself* *with* *it* *that* *he* *had* *escaped* *that* *fury* *for* *change* *which* *possessed* *Louis* *XI* *.* *,* *a* *tormenting* *and* *industrious* *king* *,* *whose* *policy* *it* *was* *to* *maintain* *the* *elasticity* *of* *his* *power* *by* *frequent* *appointments* *and* *revocations* *.*
*Add* *to* *this* *the* *pleasure* *of* *displaying* *himself* *in* *rides* *about* *the* *city* *,* *and* *of* *making* *his* *fine* *military* *costume* *,* *which* *you* *may* *still* *admire* *sculptured* *on* *his* *tomb* *in* *the* *abbey* *of* *Valmont* *in* *Normandy* *,* *and* *his* *morion* *,* *all* *embossed* *at* *Montlhry* *,* *stand* *out* *a* *contrast* *against* *the* *parti* ** *colored* *red* *and* *tawny* *robes* *of* *the* *aldermen* *and* *police* *.*
*He* *could* *not* *have* *told* *himself* *.*
*He* *'s* *eating* *the* *plaintiff* *,* *he* *'s* *eating* *the* *suits* *,* *he* *eats* *,* *he* *chews* *,* *he* *crams* *,* *he* *fills* *himself* *.*
*Thanks* *to* *this* *precaution* *,* *which* *he* *always* *was* *careful* *to* *take* *at* *the* *moment* *when* *on* *the* *point* *of* *beginning* *an* *examination* *,* *he* *knew* *beforehand* *the* *names* *,* *titles* *,* *and* *misdeeds* *of* *the* *accused* *,* *made* *cut* *and* *dried* *responses* *to* *questions* *foreseen* *,* *and* *succeeded* *in* *extricating* *himself* *from* *all* *the* *windings* *of* *the* *interrogation* *without* *allowing* *his* *deafness* *to* *be* *too* *apparent* *.*
*Hence* *he* *took* *great* *care* *to* *conceal* *his* *deafness* *from* *the* *eyes* *of* *all* *,* *and* *he* *generally* *succeeded* *so* *well* *that* *he* *had* *reached* *the* *point* *of* *deluding* *himself* *,* *which* *is* *,* *by* *the* *way* *,* *easier* *than* *is* *supposed* *.*
*Explain* *yourself* *upon* *all* *these* *points* *.* ** *Clerk* *,* *have* *you* *written* *down* *what* *the* *prisoner* *has* *said* *thus* *far* *?* *"*
*"* *So* *this* *is* *as* *much* *as* *to* *say* *,* *perverse* *and* *thieving* *knave* *that* *you* *are* *,* *that* *you* *permit* *yourself* *to* *be* *lacking* *in* *respect* *towards* *the* *Auditor* *of* *the* *Chtelet* *,* *to* *the* *magistrate* *committed* *to* *the* *popular* *police* *of* *Paris* *,* *charged* *with* *searching* *out* *crimes* *,* *delinquencies* *,* *and* *evil* *conduct* *;* *with* *controlling* *all* *trades* *,* *and* *interdicting* *monopoly* *;* *with* *maintaining* *the* *pavements* *;* *with* *debarring* *the* *hucksters* *of* *chickens* *,* *poultry* *,* *and* *water* ** *fowl* *;* *of* *superintending* *the* *measuring* *of* *fagots* *and* *other* *sorts* *of* *wood* *;* *of* *purging* *the* *city* *of* *mud* *,* *and* *the* *air* *of* *contagious* *maladies* *;* *in* *a* *word* *,* *with* *attending* *continually* *to* *public* *affairs* *,* *without* *wages* *or* *hope* *of* *salary* *!*
*And* *he* *seated* *himself* *,* *utterly* *breathless* *,* *wiping* *away* *the* *great* *drops* *of* *sweat* *which* *fell* *from* *his* *brow* *and* *drenched* *,* *like* *tears* *,* *the* *parchments* *spread* *out* *before* *him* *.*
*This* *was* *too* *much* *;* *the* *provost* *could* *no* *longer* *restrain* *himself* *.*
*However* *,* *at* *the* *moment* *when* *Master* *Florian* *Barbedienne* *was* *reading* *the* *sentence* *in* *his* *turn* *,* *before* *signing* *it* *,* *the* *clerk* *felt* *himself* *moved* *with* *pity* *for* *the* *poor* *wretch* *of* *a* *prisoner* *,* *and* *,* *in* *the* *hope* *of* *obtaining* *some* *mitigation* *of* *the* *penalty* *,* *he* *approached* *as* *near* *the* *auditor* *'s* *ear* *as* *possible* *,* *and* *said* *,* *pointing* *to* *Quasimodo* *,* *``* *That* *man* *is* *deaf* *.* *''*
*And* *,* *meanwhile* *,* *four* *mounted* *sergeants* *,* *who* *have* *just* *posted* *themselves* *at* *the* *four* *sides* *of* *the* *pillory* *,* *have* *already* *concentrated* *around* *themselves* *a* *goodly* *proportion* *of* *the* *populace* *scattered* *on* *the* *Place* *,* *who* *condemn* *themselves* *to* *immobility* *and* *fatigue* *in* *the* *hope* *of* *a* *small* *execution* *.*
*This* *little* *cell* *had* *been* *celebrated* *in* *Paris* *for* *nearly* *three* *centuries* *,* *ever* *since* *Madame* *Rolande* *de* *la* *Tour* ** *Roland* *,* *in* *mourning* *for* *her* *father* *who* *died* *in* *the* *Crusades* *,* *had* *caused* *it* *to* *be* *hollowed* *out* *in* *the* *wall* *of* *her* *own* *house* *,* *in* *order* *to* *immure* *herself* *there* *forever* *,* *keeping* *of* *all* *her* *palace* *only* *this* *lodging* *whose* *door* *was* *walled* *up* *,* *and* *whose* *window* *stood* *open* *,* *winter* *and* *summer* *,* *giving* *all* *the* *rest* *to* *the* *poor* *and* *to* *God* *.*
*At* *her* *death* *,* *at* *the* *moment* *when* *she* *was* *passing* *to* *the* *other* *sepulchre* *,* *she* *had* *bequeathed* *this* *one* *in* *perpetuity* *to* *afflicted* *women* *,* *mothers* *,* *widows* *,* *or* *maidens* *,* *who* *should* *wish* *to* *pray* *much* *for* *others* *or* *for* *themselves* *,* *and* *who* *should* *desire* *to* *inter* *themselves* *alive* *in* *a* *great* *grief* *or* *a* *great* *penance* *.*
*The* *majority* *had* *contented* *themselves* *with* *holding* *the* *memory* *of* *Rolande* *sacred* *,* *and* *converting* *her* *rags* *into* *relics* *.*
*To* *confine* *ourselves* *to* *the* *cell* *in* *the* *Tour* ** *Roland* *,* *we* *must* *say* *that* *it* *had* *never* *lacked* *recluses* *.*
*Some* *serious* *motive* *,* *no* *doubt* *,* *prevented* *his* *biting* *it* *(* *the* *cake* *)* *,* *for* *he* *contented* *himself* *with* *gazing* *tenderly* *at* *it* *.*
*Gallantry* *claimed* *her* *once* *more* *;* *men* *came* *to* *see* *la* *Chantefleurie* *;* *she* *found* *customers* *again* *for* *her* *merchandise* *,* *and* *out* *of* *all* *these* *horrors* *she* *made* *baby* *clothes* *,* *caps* *and* *bibs* *,* *bodices* *with* *shoulder* ** *straps* *of* *lace* *,* *and* *tiny* *bonnets* *of* *satin* *,* *without* *even* *thinking* *of* *buying* *herself* *another* *coverlet* *.* ** ** *Master* *Eustache* *,* *I* *have* *already* *told* *you* *not* *to* *eat* *that* *cake* *.* ** ** *It* *is* *certain* *that* *little* *Agnes* *,* *that* *was* *the* *child* *'s* *name* *,* *a* *baptismal* *name* *,* *for* *it* *was* *a* *long* *time* *since* *la* *Chantefleurie* *had* *had* *any* *surname* ** ** *it* *is* *certain* *that* *that* *little* *one* *was* *more* *swathed* *in* *ribbons* *and* *embroideries* *than* *a* *dauphiness* *of* *Dauphiny* *!*
*The* *wise* *people* *said* *to* *the* *foolish* *:* *``* *Do* *n't* *go* *there* *!* *''* *and* *then* *went* *themselves* *on* *the* *sly* *.*
*It* *was* *the* *monstrous* *child* *of* *some* *gypsy* *woman* *,* *who* *had* *given* *herself* *to* *the* *devil* *.*
*La* *Chantefleurie* *flung* *herself* *upon* *the* *little* *shoe* *,* *all* *that* *remained* *to* *her* *of* *all* *that* *she* *loved* *.*
*She* *had* *clung* *to* *it* *as* *to* *life* *itself* *.*
*Monseigneur* *the* *archbishop* *interested* *himself* *in* *the* *child* *of* *Egypt* *,* *exorcised* *it* *,* *blessed* *it* *,* *removed* *the* *devil* *carefully* *from* *its* *body* *,* *and* *sent* *it* *to* *Paris* *,* *to* *be* *exposed* *on* *the* *wooden* *bed* *at* *Notre* ** *Dame* *,* *as* *a* *foundling* *.* *"*
*It* *was* *,* *in* *fact* *,* *a* *melancholy* *spectacle* *which* *presented* *itself* *to* *the* *eyes* *of* *the* *two* *women* *,* *as* *they* *gazed* *through* *the* *grating* *of* *the* *Rat* ** *Hole* *,* *neither* *stirring* *nor* *breathing* *.*
*What* *shall* *we* *do* *to* *rouse* *her* *?* *``* *Eustache* *,* *who* *,* *up* *to* *that* *moment* *had* *been* *diverted* *by* *a* *little* *carriage* *drawn* *by* *a* *large* *dog* *,* *which* *had* *just* *passed* *,* *suddenly* *perceived* *that* *his* *three* *conductresses* *were* *gazing* *at* *something* *through* *the* *window* *,* *and* *,* *curiosity* *taking* *possession* *of* *him* *in* *his* *turn* *,* *he* *climbed* *upon* *a* *stone* *post* *,* *elevated* *himself* *on* *tiptoe* *,* *and* *applied* *his* *fat* *,* *red* *face* *to* *the* *opening* *,* *shouting* *,* *''* *Mother* *,* *let* *me* *see* *too* *!* *"*
*Every* *limb* *was* *trembling* *,* *her* *voice* *quivered* *,* *her* *eyes* *flashed* *,* *she* *had* *raised* *herself* *upon* *her* *knees* *;* *suddenly* *she* *extended* *her* *thin* *,* *white* *hand* *towards* *the* *child* *,* *who* *was* *regarding* *her* *with* *a* *look* *of* *astonishment* *.* *``* *Take* *away* *that* *child* *!* *''* *she* *cried* *.*
*A* *moment* *later* *,* *however* *,* *she* *moved* *,* *and* *they* *beheld* *her* *drag* *herself* *,* *on* *her* *knees* *and* *elbows* *,* *to* *the* *corner* *where* *the* *little* *shoe* *was* *.*
*``* *Can* *she* *have* *killed* *herself* *?* *''* *said* *Gervaise* *,* *venturing* *to* *pass* *her* *head* *through* *the* *air* ** *hole* *.* *"* *Sister* *!*
*It* *amused* *itself* *with* *watching* *the* *pillory* *,* *a* *very* *simple* *sort* *of* *monument* *,* *composed* *of* *a* *cube* *of* *masonry* *about* *six* *feet* *high* *and* *hollow* *in* *the* *interior* *.*
*They* *were* *forced* *to* *content* *themselves* *with* *those* *four* *stretches* *of* *rubble* *work* *,* *backed* *with* *sandstone* *,* *and* *a* *wretched* *stone* *gibbet* *,* *meagre* *and* *bare* *,* *on* *one* *side* *.*
*He* *had* *allowed* *himself* *to* *be* *led* *,* *pushed* *,* *carried* *,* *lifted* *,* *bound* *,* *and* *bound* *again* *.*
*During* *this* *gayety* *,* *a* *man* *in* *the* *livery* *of* *the* *city* *,* *short* *of* *stature* *and* *robust* *of* *mien* *,* *mounted* *the* *platform* *and* *placed* *himself* *near* *the* *victim* *.*
*Here* *,* *as* *in* *the* *Grand* *Hall* *,* *the* *women* *rendered* *themselves* *particularly* *prominent* *.*
*But* *as* *soon* *as* *the* *mule* *was* *near* *enough* *to* *the* *pillory* *to* *allow* *of* *its* *rider* *recognizing* *the* *victim* *,* *the* *priest* *dropped* *his* *eyes* *,* *beat* *a* *hasty* *retreat* *,* *spurred* *on* *rigorously* *,* *as* *though* *in* *haste* *to* *rid* *himself* *of* *humiliating* *appeals* *,* *and* *not* *at* *all* *desirous* *of* *being* *saluted* *and* *recognized* *by* *a* *poor* *fellow* *in* *such* *a* *predicament* *.*
*It* *is* *certain* *that* *a* *vague* *and* *indistinct* *desire* *to* *please* *the* *handsome* *officer* *animated* *them* *all* *,* *that* *his* *splendid* *uniform* *was* *the* *target* *of* *all* *their* *coquetries* *,* *and* *that* *from* *the* *moment* *he* *presented* *himself* *,* *there* *existed* *among* *them* *a* *secret* *,* *suppressed* *rivalry* *,* *which* *they* *hardly* *acknowledged* *even* *to* *themselves* *,* *but* *which* *broke* *forth* *,* *none* *the* *less* *,* *every* *instant* *,* *in* *their* *gestures* *and* *remarks* *.*
*Each* *one* *felt* *herself* *,* *in* *some* *sort* *,* *wounded* *in* *her* *beauty* *.*
*``* *My* *dear* *,* *''* *continued* *Fleur* ** *de* ** *Lys* *,* *with* *decided* *sharpness* *,* *``* *You* *will* *get* *yourself* *taken* *up* *by* *the* *sumptuary* *police* *for* *your* *gilded* *girdle* *.* *''*
*Every* *day* *,* *an* *hour* *before* *sunset* *,* *the* *archdeacon* *ascended* *the* *staircase* *to* *the* *tower* *,* *and* *shut* *himself* *up* *in* *this* *cell* *,* *where* *he* *sometimes* *passed* *whole* *nights* *.*
*The* *crowd* *was* *swarming* *around* *her* *;* *from* *time* *to* *time* *,* *a* *man* *accoutred* *in* *red* *and* *yellow* *made* *them* *form* *into* *a* *circle* *,* *and* *then* *returned* *,* *seated* *himself* *on* *a* *chair* *a* *few* *paces* *from* *the* *dancer* *,* *and* *took* *the* *goat* *'s* *head* *on* *his* *knees* *.*
*This* *garment* *presented* *itself* *,* *I* *took* *it* *,* *and* *I* *left* *my* *ancient* *black* *smock* *,* *which* *,* *for* *a* *hermetic* *like* *myself* *,* *was* *far* *from* *being* *hermetically* *closed* *.*
*What* *would* *you* *have* *?* *it* *is* *an* *eclipse* *.* *Apollo* *himself* *tended* *the* *flocks* *of* *Admetus* *.* *"*
*All* *at* *once* *his* *deep* ** *set* *eye* *assumed* *so* *sagacious* *and* *penetrating* *an* *expression* *,* *that* *Gringoire* *felt* *himself* *,* *so* *to* *speak* *,* *searched* *to* *the* *bottom* *of* *the* *soul* *by* *that* *glance* *.*
*She* *believed* *herself* *to* *be* *hated* *,* *in* *all* *the* *city* *,* *by* *but* *two* *persons* *,* *of* *whom* *she* *often* *spoke* *in* *terror* *:* *the* *sacked* *nun* *of* *the* *Tour* ** *Roland* *,* *a* *villanous* *recluse* *who* *cherished* *some* *secret* *grudge* *against* *these* *gypsies* *,* *and* *who* *cursed* *the* *poor* *dancer* *every* *time* *that* *the* *latter* *passed* *before* *her* *window* *;* *and* *a* *priest* *,* *who* *never* *met* *her* *without* *casting* *at* *her* *looks* *and* *words* *which* *frightened* *her* *.*
*Every* *morning* *,* *he* *set* *out* *from* *the* *lair* *of* *the* *thieves* *,* *generally* *with* *the* *gypsy* *;* *he* *helped* *her* *make* *her* *collections* *of* *targes* *** *and* *little* *blanks* *** *** *in* *the* *squares* *;* *each* *evening* *he* *returned* *to* *the* *same* *roof* *with* *her* *,* *allowed* *her* *to* *bolt* *herself* *into* *her* *little* *chamber* *,* *and* *slept* *the* *sleep* *ofthe* *just* *.* *A* *very* *sweet* *existence* *,* *taking* *it* *all* *in* *all* *,* *he* *said* *,* *and* *well* *adapted* *to* *revery* *.*
*On* *arriving* *in* *the* *lofty* *bell* *chamber* *,* *Quasimodo* *gazed* *for* *some* *time* *at* *the* *six* *bells* *and* *shook* *his* *head* *sadly* *,* *as* *though* *groaning* *over* *some* *foreign* *element* *which* *had* *interposed* *itself* *in* *his* *heart* *between* *them* *and* *him* *.*
*It* *chanced* *that* *upon* *a* *fine* *morning* *in* *this* *same* *month* *of* *March* *,* *I* *think* *it* *was* *on* *Saturday* *the* *29th* *,* *Saint* *Eustache* *'s* *day* *,* *our* *young* *friend* *the* *student* *,* *Jehan* *Frollo* *du* *Moulin* *,* *perceived* *,* *as* *he* *was* *dressing* *himself* *,* *that* *his* *breeches* *,* *which* *contained* *his* *purse* *,* *gave* *out* *no* *metallic* *ring* *.* *``* *Poor* *purse* *,* *''* *he* *said* *,* *drawing* *it* *from* *his* *fob* *,* *"* *what* *!* *not* *the* *smallest* *parisis* *!* *how* *cruelly* *the* *dice* *,* *beer* ** *pots* *,* *and* *Venus* *have* *depleted* *thee* *!*
*He* *dressed* *himself* *sadly* *.*
*The* *Petit* ** *Pont* *traversed* *,* *the* *Rue* *Neuve* ** *Sainte* ** *Genevive* *crossed* *,* *Jehan* *de* *Molendino* *found* *himself* *in* *front* *of* *Notre* ** *Dame* *.*
*Something* *very* *similar* *to* *Faust* *'s* *cell* *presented* *itself* *to* *Jehan* *'s* *view* *,* *when* *he* *ventured* *his* *head* *through* *the* *half* ** *open* *door* *.*
*``* *Hence* *,* *''* *continued* *the* *priest* *,* *"* *one* *wretched* *thought* *is* *sufficient* *to* *render* *a* *man* *weak* *and* *beside* *himself* *!*
*The* *archdeacon* *returned* *and* *seated* *himself* *in* *his* *armchair* *,* *and* *placed* *his* *head* *on* *both* *his* *hands* *,* *as* *a* *sick* *man* *does* *,* *whose* *head* *is* *heavy* *and* *burning* *.*
*This* *was* *a* *formidable* *exordium* *.* *Jehan* *braced* *himself* *for* *a* *rough* *encounter* *.*
*A* *malicious* *page* *amused* *himself* *by* *splashing* *the* *scholars* *,* *by* *making* *his* *horse* *gallop* *through* *the* *mire* *!* *"*
*Hide* *yourself* *quickly* *under* *the* *furnace* *,* *and* *do* *not* *breathe* *.* *"*
*The* *scholar* *concealed* *himself* *;* *just* *then* *a* *happy* *idea* *occurred* *to* *him* *.*
*The* *first* *point* *which* *struck* *the* *eye* *of* *our* *Jehan* *(* *who* *,* *as* *the* *reader* *will* *readily* *surmise* *,* *had* *ensconced* *himself* *in* *his* *nook* *in* *such* *a* *manner* *as* *to* *enable* *him* *to* *see* *and* *hear* *everything* *at* *his* *good* *pleasure* *)* *was* *the* *perfect* *sadness* *of* *the* *garments* *and* *the* *visage* *of* *this* *new* ** *corner* *.*
*He* *had* *made* *the* *latter* *a* *sign* *to* *seat* *himself* *on* *a* *stool* *near* *the* *door* *,* *and* *,* *after* *several* *moments* *of* *a* *silence* *which* *appeared* *to* *be* *a* *continuation* *of* *a* *preceding* *meditation* *,* *he* *said* *to* *him* *in* *a* *rather* *patronizing* *way* *,* *``* *Good* *day* *,* *Master* *Jacques* *.* *''*
*``* *I* *will* *tell* *you* *that* *hereafter* *,* *''* *he* *stammered* *,* *in* *a* *voice* *that* *was* *barely* *articulate* *;* *then* *he* *resumed* *with* *an* *effort* *,* *``* *Busy* *yourself* *with* *Marc* *Cenaine* *.* *''*
*At* *that* *moment* *,* *a* *bewildered* *fly* *which* *was* *seeking* *the* *March* *sun* *,* *flung* *itself* *through* *the* *net* *and* *became* *entangled* *there* *.*
*Thou* *wert* *flying* *towards* *learning* *,* *light* *,* *the* *sun* *.* *Thou* *hadst* *no* *other* *care* *than* *to* *reach* *the* *open* *air* *,* *the* *full* *daylight* *of* *eternal* *truth* *;* *but* *in* *precipitating* *thyself* *towards* *the* *dazzling* *window* *which* *opens* *upon* *the* *other* *world* *,* ** ** *upon* *the* *world* *of* *brightness* *,* *intelligence* *,* *and* *science* ** ** *blind* *fly* *!* *senseless* *,* *learned* *man* *!* *thou* *hast* *not* *perceived* *that* *subtle* *spider* *'s* *web* *,* *stretched* *by* *destiny* *betwixt* *the* *light* *and* *thee* ** ** *thou* *hast* *flung* *thyself* *headlong* *into* *it* *,* *and* *now* *thou* *art* *struggling* *with* *head* *broken* *and* *mangled* *wings* *between* *the* *iron* *antennae* *of* *fate* *!*
*How* *many* *systems* *vainly* *fling* *themselves* *buzzing* *against* *that* *eternal* *pane* *!* *"*
*``* *It* *is* *a* *cat* *of* *mine* *,* *''* *said* *the* *archdeacon* *,* *quickly* *,* *``* *who* *is* *regaling* *herself* *under* *there* *with* *a* *mouse* *,* *''*
*He* *stamped* *his* *foot* *when* *he* *found* *himself* *on* *the* *ground* *once* *again* *.* *``* *Oh* *!* *''* *said* *he* *,* *"* *good* *and* *honorable* *pavement* *of* *Paris* *,* *cursed* *staircase* *,* *fit* *to* *put* *the* *angels* *of* *Jacob* *'s* *ladder* *out* *of* *breath* *!*
*What* *was* *I* *thinking* *of* *to* *thrust* *myself* *into* *that* *stone* *gimlet* *which* *pierces* *the* *sky* *;* *all* *for* *the* *sake* *of* *eating* *bearded* *cheese* *,* *and* *looking* *at* *the* *bell* ** *towers* *of* *Paris* *through* *a* *hole* *in* *the* *wall* *!* *"*
*Dom* *Claude* *started* *,* *interrupted* *himself* *and* *,* *to* *the* *great* *amazement* *of* *Charmolue* *,* *turned* *round* *and* *beheld* *his* *brother* *Jehan* *accosting* *a* *tall* *officer* *at* *the* *door* *of* *the* *Gondelaurier* *mansion* *.*
*``* *Horns* *and* *thunder* *yourself* *!* *''* *replied* *the* *student* *.* *``* *Come* *now* *,* *fair* *captain* *,* *whence* *comes* *this* *overflow* *of* *fine* *words* *?* *''*
*He* *heard* *them* *singing* *at* *the* *top* *of* *their* *lungs* *the* *ancient* *refrain* *,* ** ** *The* *children* *of* *the* *Petits* *Carreaux* *let* *themselves* *be* *hung* *like* *calves* *.*
*Only* *at* *intervals* *did* *some* *little* *ragged* *boy* *raise* *himself* *on* *tiptoe* *as* *far* *as* *the* *ledge* *,* *and* *hurl* *into* *the* *drinking* ** *shop* *,* *that* *ancient* *,* *jeering* *hoot* *,* *with* *which* *drunken* *men* *were* *then* *pursued* *:* *``* *Aux* *Houls* *,* *saouls* *,* *saouls* *,* *saouls* *!* *''*
*This* *mantle* *he* *had* *just* *purchased* *of* *the* *old* ** *clothes* *man* *,* *in* *the* *vicinity* *of* *the* *``* *Eve* *'s* *Apple* *,* *''* *no* *doubt* *to* *protect* *himself* *from* *the* *cold* *of* *the* *March* *evening* *,* *possibly* *also* *,* *to* *conceal* *his* *costume* *.*
*The* *man* *in* *the* *mantle* *went* *and* *stationed* *himself* *on* *the* *watch* *under* *a* *porch* *on* *the* *other* *side* *of* *the* *street* *.*
*``* *Captain* *Phoebus* *de* *Chteaupers* *,* *thou* *liest* *!* *''* *Any* *one* *who* *could* *have* *beheld* *at* *that* *moment* *the* *captain* *'s* *inflamed* *countenance* *,* *his* *leap* *backwards* *,* *so* *violent* *that* *he* *disengaged* *himself* *from* *the* *grip* *which* *held* *him* *,* *the* *proud* *air* *with* *which* *he* *clapped* *his* *hand* *on* *his* *swordhilt* *,* *and* *,* *in* *the* *presence* *of* *this* *wrath* *the* *gloomy* *immobility* *of* *the* *man* *in* *the* *cloak* *,* ** ** *any* *one* *who* *could* *have* *beheld* *this* *would* *have* *been* *frightened* *.*
*So* *I* *will* *betake* *myself* *to* *my* *rendezvous* *;* *it* *is* *for* *seven* *o* *'clock* *,* *as* *you* *know* *.* *"* *Here* *Phoebus* *scratched* *his* *ear* *.*
*When* *he* *recovered* *himself* *,* *Phoebus* *and* *Esmeralda* *were* *alone* *seated* *on* *the* *wooden* *coffer* *beside* *the* *lamp* *which* *made* *these* *two* *youthful* *figures* *and* *a* *miserable* *pallet* *at* *the* *end* *of* *the* *attic* *stand* *out* *plainly* *before* *the* *archdeacon* *'s* *eyes* *.*
*I* *love* *my* *captain* *.* *"* *Phoebus* *again* *profited* *by* *the* *opportunity* *to* *impress* *upon* *her* *beautiful* *bent* *neck* *a* *kiss* *which* *made* *the* *young* *girl* *straighten* *herself* *up* *as* *scarlet* *as* *a* *poppy* *.*
*Phoebus* *returned* *and* *seated* *himself* *beside* *her* *,* *but* *much* *closer* *than* *before* *.*
*It* *is* *I.* *Look* *at* *me* *;* *it* *is* *the* *little* *one* *whom* *thou* *wilt* *surely* *not* *repulse* *,* *who* *comes* *,* *who* *comes* *herself* *to* *seek* *thee* *.*
*Gringoire* *himself* *was* *not* *disinclined* *to* *regard* *this* *as* *altogether* *alarming* *and* *probable* *.*
*Suddenly* *it* *caught* *sight* *of* *the* *gypsy* *girl* *,* *and* *leaping* *over* *the* *table* *and* *the* *head* *of* *a* *clerk* *,* *in* *two* *bounds* *it* *was* *at* *her* *knees* *;* *then* *it* *rolled* *gracefully* *on* *its* *mistress* *'s* *feet* *,* *soliciting* *a* *word* *or* *a* *caress* *;* *but* *the* *accused* *remained* *motionless* *,* *and* *poor* *Djali* *himself* *obtained* *not* *a* *glance* *.*
*``* *He* *is* *destroying* *himself* *!* *''* *he* *cried* *aloud* *;* *``* *You* *see* *well* *that* *he* *does* *not* *know* *what* *he* *is* *doing* *.* *''*
*A* *counsellor* *having* *remarked* *that* *the* *gentlemen* *were* *fatigued* *,* *and* *that* *it* *would* *be* *a* *long* *time* *to* *wait* *until* *the* *torture* *was* *at* *an* *end* *,* *the* *president* *replied* *that* *a* *magistrate* *mustknow* *how* *to* *sacrifice* *himself* *to* *his* *duty* *.*
*``* *What* *an* *annoying* *and* *vexatious* *hussy* *,* *''* *said* *an* *aged* *judge* *,* *``* *to* *get* *herself* *put* *to* *the* *question* *when* *one* *has* *not* *supped* *!* *''*
*Pray* *take* *the* *trouble* *to* *seat* *yourself* *on* *this* *bed* *.*
*The* *unfortunate* *girl* *felt* *herself* *so* *utterly* *abandoned* *by* *God* *and* *men* *,* *that* *her* *head* *fell* *upon* *her* *breast* *like* *an* *inert* *thing* *which* *has* *no* *power* *in* *itself* *.*
*``* *Take* *that* *off* *!* *''* *she* *cried* *angrily* *;* *and* *drawing* *herself* *up* *,* *with* *her* *hair* *all* *dishevelled* *:* *``* *Mercy* *!* *''* *She* *darted* *from* *the* *bed* *to* *fling* *herself* *at* *the* *feet* *of* *the* *king* *'s* *procurator* *,* *but* *her* *leg* *was* *fast* *in* *the* *heavy* *block* *of* *oak* *and* *iron* *,* *and* *she* *sank* *down* *upon* *the* *boot* *,* *more* *crushed* *than* *a* *bee* *with* *a* *lump* *of* *lead* *on* *its* *wing* *.*
*And* *she* *fell* *back* *upon* *the* *leather* *bed* *,* *dying* *,* *doubled* *up* *,* *allowing* *herself* *to* *hang* *suspended* *from* *the* *strap* *buckled* *round* *her* *waist* *.*
*She* *had* *dragged* *herself* *to* *her* *place* *.*
*When* *Charmolue* *had* *installed* *himself* *in* *a* *magisterial* *manner* *in* *his* *own* *,* *he* *seated* *himself* *,* *then* *rose* *and* *said* *,* *without* *exhibiting* *too* *much* *self* ** *complacency* *at* *his* *success* *,* ** ** *``* *The* *accused* *has* *confessed* *all* *.* *''*
*All* *at* *once* *,* *in* *the* *middle* *of* *a* *fine* *period* *,* *he* *interrupted* *himself* *,* *and* *his* *glance* *,* *ordinarily* *so* *gentle* *and* *even* *stupid* *,* *became* *menacing* *.*
*So* *saying* *,* *he* *pointed* *to* *the* *little* *goat* *,* *who* *,* *on* *seeing* *Charmolue* *gesticulating* *,* *had* *,* *in* *point* *of* *fact* *,* *thought* *it* *appropriate* *to* *do* *the* *same* *,* *and* *had* *seated* *himself* *on* *his* *haunches* *,* *reproducing* *to* *the* *best* *of* *his* *ability* *,* *with* *his* *forepaws* *and* *his* *bearded* *head* *the* *pathetic* *pantomine* *of* *the* *king* *'s* *procurator* *in* *the* *ecclesiastical* *court* *.*
*He* *put* *on* *his* *cap* *again* *and* *seated* *himself* *.*
*She* *had* *a* *recollection* *of* *a* *sentence* *of* *death* *pronounced* *somewhere* *,* *against* *some* *one* *,* *then* *of* *having* *been* *herself* *carried* *away* *,* *and* *of* *waking* *up* *in* *darkness* *and* *silence* *,* *chilled* *to* *the* *heart* *.*
*She* *had* *dragged* *herself* *along* *on* *her* *hands* *.* *Then* *iron* *rings* *that* *cut* *her* *ankles* *,* *and* *chains* *had* *rattled* *.*
*Then* *she* *had* *seated* *herself* *on* *that* *straw* *and* *,* *sometimes* *,* *for* *the* *sake* *of* *changing* *her* *attitude* *,* *on* *the* *last* *stone* *step* *in* *her* *dungeon* *.*
*Yes* *,* *I* *was* *happy* *,* *at* *least* *I* *believed* *myself* *to* *be* *so* *.*
*In* *a* *few* *moments* *,* *I* *felt* *the* *gross* *things* *of* *earth* *flee* *far* *away* *,* *and* *I* *found* *myself* *once* *more* *calm* *,* *quieted* *,* *and* *serene* *,* *in* *the* *presence* *of* *the* *tranquil* *radiance* *of* *eternal* *truth* *.*
*Surprised* *,* *intoxicated* *,* *charmed* *,* *I* *allowed* *myself* *to* *gaze* *upon* *thee* *.*
*"* *Already* *half* *fascinated* *,* *I* *tried* *to* *cling* *fast* *to* *something* *and* *hold* *myself* *back* *from* *falling* *.*
*I* *drew* *myself* *up* *;* *I* *fled* *;* *but* *alas* *!* *something* *within* *me* *had* *fallen* *never* *to* *rise* *again* *,* *something* *had* *come* *upon* *me* *from* *which* *I* *could* *not* *flee* *.* *"*
*"* *Unable* *to* *rid* *myself* *of* *it* *,* *since* *I* *heard* *your* *song* *humming* *ever* *in* *my* *head* *,* *beheld* *your* *feet* *dancing* *always* *on* *my* *breviary* *,* *felt* *even* *at* *night* *,* *in* *my* *dreams* *,* *your* *form* *in* *contact* *with* *my* *own* *,* *I* *desired* *to* *see* *you* *again* *,* *to* *touch* *you* *,* *to* *know* *who* *you* *were* *,* *to* *see* *whether* *I* *should* *really* *find* *you* *like* *the* *ideal* *image* *which* *I* *had* *retained* *of* *you* *,* *to* *shatter* *my* *dream* *,* *perchance* *,* *with* *reality* *.*
*Then* ** ** *how* *stop* *myself* *on* *that* *slope* *of* *hell* *?* ** ** *then* *I* *no* *longer* *belonged* *to* *myself* *.*
*But* *every* *evil* *thought* *is* *inexorable* *,* *and* *insists* *on* *becoming* *a* *deed* *;* *but* *where* *I* *believed* *myself* *to* *be* *all* *powerful* *,* *fate* *was* *more* *powerful* *than* *I.* *Alas* *!* *it* *is* *fate* *which* *has* *seized* *you* *and* *delivered* *you* *to* *the* *terrible* *wheels* *of* *the* *machine* *which* *I* *had* *constructed* *doubly* *.* *Listen* *.*
*You* *think* *yourself* *unhappy* *;* *alas* *!* *alas* *!* *you* *know* *not* *what* *unhappiness* *is* *.*
*The* *priest* *dragged* *himself* *towards* *her* *on* *his* *knees* *.*
*Oh* *!* *save* *yourself* *!* *spare* *me* *!* *"*
*The* *young* *girl* *flung* *herself* *upon* *him* *like* *a* *raging* *tigress* *,* *and* *pushed* *him* *upon* *the* *steps* *of* *the* *staircase* *with* *supernatural* *force* *.*
*Nothing* *shall* *unite* *us* *!* *not* *hell* *itself* *!*
*She* *smiles* *upon* *it* *,* *she* *kisses* *it* *,* *she* *talks* *to* *it* *;* *she* *asks* *herself* *whether* *there* *can* *actually* *be* *a* *foot* *so* *tiny* *;* *and* *if* *the* *child* *be* *absent* *,* *the* *pretty* *shoe* *suffices* *to* *place* *the* *sweet* *and* *fragile* *creature* *before* *her* *eyes* *.*
*She* *was* *somewhat* *aroused* *by* *it* *,* *knotted* *her* *hair* *upon* *her* *ears* *in* *order* *to* *deafen* *herself* *,* *and* *resumed* *her* *contemplation* *,* *on* *her* *knees* *,* *of* *the* *inanimate* *object* *which* *she* *had* *adored* *for* *fifteen* *years* *.*
*Oh* *!* *I* *will* *writhe* *on* *the* *earth* *,* *I* *will* *break* *the* *stones* *with* *my* *forehead* *,* *and* *I* *will* *damn* *myself* *,* *and* *I* *will* *curse* *you* *,* *Lord* *,* *if* *you* *keep* *my* *child* *from* *me* *!* *you* *see* *plainly* *that* *my* *arms* *are* *all* *bitten* *,* *Lord* *!*
*The* *unhappy* *woman* *flung* *herself* *upon* *that* *shoe* *;* *her* *consolation* *and* *her* *despair* *for* *so* *many* *years* *,* *and* *her* *vitals* *were* *rent* *with* *sobs* *as* *on* *the* *first* *day* *;* *because* *,* *for* *a* *mother* *who* *has* *lost* *her* *child* *,* *it* *is* *always* *the* *first* *day* *.*
*Thistime* *,* *on* *the* *contrary* *,* *she* *drew* *herself* *upright* *with* *a* *start* *,* *and* *listened* *eagerly* *.*
*``* *They* *are* *going* *to* *hang* *a* *gypsy* *to* ** *day* *.* *''* *With* *the* *abrupt* *leap* *of* *that* *spider* *which* *we* *have* *seen* *fling* *itself* *upon* *a* *fly* *at* *the* *trembling* *of* *its* *web* *,* *she* *rushed* *to* *her* *air* ** *hole* *,* *which* *opened* *as* *the* *reader* *knows* *,* *on* *the* *Place* *de* *Grve* *.*
*A* *ladder* *had* *,* *in* *fact* *,* *been* *raised* *up* *against* *the* *permanent* *gibbet* *,* *and* *the* *hangman* *'s* *assistant* *was* *busying* *himself* *with* *adjusting* *the* *chains* *which* *had* *been* *rusted* *by* *the* *rain* *.*
*But* *youth* *had* *gained* *the* *upper* *hand* *;* *and* *,* *as* *frequently* *happens* *,* *in* *spite* *of* *prognostications* *and* *diagnoses* *,* *nature* *had* *amused* *herself* *by* *saving* *the* *sick* *man* *under* *the* *physician* *'s* *very* *nose* *.*
*Hence* *,* *one* *fine* *morning* *,* *feeling* *himself* *better* *,* *he* *had* *left* *his* *golden* *spurs* *with* *the* *leech* *as* *payment* *,* *and* *had* *slipped* *away* *.*
*Justice* *,* *at* *that* *epoch* *,* *troubled* *itself* *very* *little* *about* *the* *clearness* *and* *definiteness* *of* *a* *criminal* *suit* *.*
*Superstitious* *,* *and* *not* *given* *to* *devoutness* *,* *like* *every* *soldier* *who* *is* *only* *a* *soldier* *,* *when* *he* *came* *to* *question* *himself* *about* *this* *adventure* *,* *he* *did* *not* *feel* *assured* *as* *to* *the* *goat* *,* *as* *to* *the* *singular* *fashion* *in* *which* *he* *had* *met* *La* *Esmeralda* *,* *as* *to* *the* *no* *less* *strange* *manner* *in* *which* *she* *had* *allowed* *him* *to* *divine* *her* *love* *,* *as* *to* *her* *character* *as* *a* *gypsy* *,* *and* *lastly* *,* *as* *to* *the* *surly* *monk* *.*
*Fashionable* *society* *of* *that* *day* *hardly* *knew* *the* *name* *of* *the* *victim* *who* *passed* *by* *at* *the* *corner* *of* *the* *street* *,* *and* *it* *was* *the* *populace* *at* *the* *most* *who* *regaled* *themselves* *with* *this* *coarse* *fare* *.*
*The* *noble* *damsel* *herself* *was* *more* *charming* *than* *ever* *.*
*Here* *Phoebus* *,* *whose* *imagination* *was* *endowed* *with* *but* *mediocre* *power* *of* *creation* *,* *began* *to* *find* *himself* *in* *a* *quandary* *as* *to* *a* *means* *of* *extricating* *himself* *for* *his* *prowess* *.*
*The* *escort* *ranged* *themselves* *in* *line* *on* *both* *sides* *.*
*They* *untied* *her* *hands* *,* *made* *her* *alight* *,* *accompanied* *by* *her* *goat* *,* *which* *had* *also* *been* *unbound* *,* *and* *which* *bleated* *with* *joy* *at* *finding* *itself* *free* *:* *and* *they* *made* *her* *walk* *barefoot* *on* *the* *hard* *pavement* *to* *the* *foot* *of* *the* *steps* *leading* *to* *the* *door* *.*
*She* *only* *recovered* *life* *and* *force* *when* *she* *beheld* *the* *priest* *make* *a* *sign* *to* *her* *guards* *to* *withdraw* *,* *and* *himself* *advance* *alone* *towards* *her* *.*
*``* *Phoebus* *!* *''* *she* *cried* *wildly* *,* *``* *can* *it* *be* *you* *believe* *it* *?* *''* *A* *monstrous* *thought* *had* *just* *presented* *itself* *to* *her* *.*
*He* *was* *handsome* *;* *he* *,* *that* *orphan* *,* *that* *foundling* *,* *that* *outcast* *,* *he* *felt* *himself* *august* *and* *strong* *,* *he* *gazed* *in* *the* *face* *of* *that* *society* *from* *which* *he* *was* *banished* *,* *and* *in* *which* *he* *had* *so* *powerfully* *intervened* *,* *of* *that* *human* *justice* *from* *which* *he* *had* *wrenched* *its* *prey* *,* *of* *all* *those* *tigers* *whose* *jaws* *were* *forced* *to* *remain* *empty* *,* *of* *those* *policemen* *,* *those* *judges* *,* *those* *executioners* *,* *of* *all* *that* *force* *of* *the* *king* *which* *he* *,* *the* *meanest* *of* *creatures* *,* *had* *just* *broken* *,* *with* *the* *force* *of* *God* *.*
*Finally* *,* *he* *made* *his* *appearance* *for* *the* *third* *time* *upon* *the* *summit* *of* *the* *tower* *where* *hung* *the* *great* *bell* *;* *from* *that* *point* *he* *seemed* *to* *be* *showing* *to* *the* *entire* *city* *the* *girl* *whom* *he* *had* *saved* *,* *and* *his* *voice* *of* *thunder* *,* *that* *voice* *which* *was* *so* *rarely* *heard* *,* *and* *which* *he* *never* *heard* *himself* *,* *repeated* *thrice* *with* *frenzy* *,* *even* *to* *the* *clouds* *:* *"* *Sanctuary* *!*
*He* *continued* *his* *flight* *as* *long* *as* *he* *could* *see* *,* *when* *he* *turned* *round* *,* *the* *turreted* *enclosure* *of* *the* *University* *,* *and* *the* *rare* *houses* *of* *the* *suburb* *;* *but* *,* *when* *,* *at* *length* *,* *a* *rise* *of* *ground* *had* *completely* *concealed* *from* *him* *that* *odious* *Paris* *,* *when* *he* *could* *believe* *himself* *to* *be* *a* *hundred* *leagues* *distant* *from* *it* *,* *in* *the* *fields* *,* *in* *the* *desert* *,* *he* *halted* *,* *and* *it* *seemed* *to* *him* *that* *he* *breathed* *more* *freely* *.*
*He* *stirred* *up* *in* *the* *depths* *of* *his* *heart* *all* *his* *hatred* *,* *all* *his* *malevolence* *;* *and* *,* *with* *the* *cold* *glance* *of* *a* *physician* *who* *examines* *a* *patient* *,* *he* *recognized* *the* *fact* *that* *this* *malevolence* *was* *nothing* *but* *vitiated* *love* *;* *that* *love* *,* *that* *source* *of* *every* *virtue* *in* *man* *,* *turned* *to* *horrible* *things* *in* *the* *heart* *of* *a* *priest* *,* *and* *that* *a* *man* *constituted* *like* *himself* *,* *in* *making* *himself* *a* *priest* *,* *made* *himself* *a* *demon* *.*
*There* *was* *another* *moment* *when* *,* *while* *laughing* *diabolically* *at* *himself* *,* *he* *represented* *to* *himself* *la* *Esmeralda* *as* *he* *had* *seen* *her* *on* *that* *first* *day* *,* *lively* *,* *careless* *,* *joyous* *,* *gayly* *attired* *,* *dancing* *,* *winged* *,* *harmonious* *,* *and* *la* *Esmeralda* *of* *the* *last* *day* *,* *in* *her* *scanty* *shift* *,* *with* *a* *rope* *about* *her* *neck* *,* *mounting* *slowly* *with* *her* *bare* *feet* *,* *the* *angular* *ladder* *of* *the* *gallows* *;* *he* *figured* *to* *himself* *this* *double* *picture* *in* *such* *a* *manner* *.that* *he* *gave* *vent* *to* *a* *terrible* *cry* *.*
*Sometimes* *he* *flung* *himself* *face* *downward* *on* *the* *,* *earth* *,* *and* *tore* *up* *the* *young* *blades* *of* *wheat* *with* *his* *nails* *.*
*Towards* *the* *hour* *of* *sunset* *,* *he* *examined* *himself* *again* *,* *and* *found* *himself* *nearly* *mad* *.*
*He* *believed* *himself* *to* *be* *far* *away* *from* *Paris* *;* *on* *taking* *his* *bearings* *,* *he* *perceived* *that* *he* *had* *only* *circled* *the* *enclosure* *of* *the* *University* *.*
*When* *he* *heard* *the* *brisk* *challenge* *of* *the* *men* ** *at* ** *arms* *of* *the* *abbey* *,* *around* *the* *crenelated* *,* *circumscribing* *wall* *of* *Saint* ** *Germain* *,* *he* *turned* *aside* *,* *took* *a* *path* *which* *presented* *itself* *between* *the* *abbey* *and* *the* *lazar* ** *house* *of* *the* *bourg* *,* *and* *at* *the* *expiration* *of* *a* *few* *minutes* *found* *himself* *on* *the* *verge* *of* *the* *Pr* ** *aux* ** *Clercs* *.*
*Claude* *,* *in* *the* *state* *of* *hallucination* *in* *which* *he* *found* *himself* *,* *believed* *that* *he* *saw* *,* *that* *he* *saw* *with* *his* *actual* *eyes* *,* *the* *bell* *tower* *of* *hell* *;* *the* *thousand* *lights* *scattered* *over* *the* *whole* *height* *of* *the* *terrible* *tower* *seemed* *to* *him* *so* *many* *porches* *of* *the* *immense* *interior* *furnace* *;* *the* *voices* *and* *noises* *which* *escaped* *from* *it* *seemed* *so* *many* *shrieks* *,* *so* *many* *death* *groans* *.*
*After* *a* *few* *strides* *he* *found* *himself* *on* *the* *Pont* *Saint* ** *Michel* *.*
*Dom* *Claude* *had* *barely* *time* *to* *fling* *himself* *on* *the* *ground* *in* *order* *that* *he* *might* *not* *be* *met* *,* *stared* *in* *the* *face* *and* *recognized* *by* *his* *brother* *.*
*The* *crescent* *of* *the* *moon* *,* *in* *her* *flight* *upward* *from* *the* *horizon* *,* *had* *paused* *at* *the* *moment* *,* *on* *the* *summit* *of* *the* *light* *hand* *tower* *,* *and* *seemed* *to* *have* *perched* *itself* *,* *like* *a* *luminous* *bird* *,* *on* *the* *edge* *of* *the* *balustrade* *,* *cut* *out* *in* *black* *trefoils* *.*
*He* *flung* *himself* *eagerly* *upon* *the* *holy* *book* *in* *the* *hope* *of* *finding* *some* *consolation* *,* *or* *some* *encouragement* *there* *.*
*On* *reading* *these* *gloomy* *words* *,* *he* *felt* *that* *which* *a* *blind* *man* *feels* *when* *he* *feels* *himself* *pricked* *by* *the* *staff* *which* *he* *has* *picked* *up* *.*
*He* *felt* *so* *many* *monstrous* *vapors* *pass* *and* *discharge* *themselves* *in* *his* *brain* *,* *that* *it* *seemed* *to* *him* *that* *his* *head* *had* *become* *one* *of* *the* *chimneys* *of* *hell* *.*
*All* *at* *once* *,* *he* *felt* *a* *freshness* *on* *his* *face* *,* *and* *found* *himself* *at* *the* *door* *of* *the* *highest* *gallery* *.*
*When* *she* *had* *passed* *on* *,* *he* *began* *to* *descend* *the* *staircase* *again* *,* *with* *the* *slowness* *which* *he* *had* *observed* *in* *the* *spectre* *,* *believing* *himself* *to* *be* *a* *spectre* *too* *,* *haggard* *,* *with* *hair* *on* *end* *,* *his* *extinguished* *lamp* *still* *in* *his* *hand* *;* *and* *as* *he* *descended* *the* *spiral* *steps* *,* *he* *distinctly* *heard* *in* *his* *ear* *a* *voice* *laughing* *and* *repeating* *,* ** **
*She* *dared* *not* *look* *at* *him* *,* *and* *she* *surrendered* *herself* *to* *her* *fate* *.*
*She* *saw* *that* *she* *was* *in* *Notre* ** *Dame* *;* *she* *remembered* *having* *been* *torn* *from* *the* *hands* *of* *the* *executioner* *;* *that* *Phoebus* *was* *alive* *,* *that* *Phoebus* *loved* *her* *no* *longer* *;* *and* *as* *these* *two* *ideas* *,* *one* *of* *which* *shed* *so* *much* *bitterness* *over* *the* *other* *,* *presented* *themselves* *simultaneously* *to* *the* *poor* *condemned* *girl* *;* *she* *turned* *to* *Quasimodo* *,* *who* *was* *standing* *in* *front* *of* *her* *,* *and* *who* *terrified* *her* *;* *she* *said* *to* *him* *,* ** ** *``* *Why* *have* *you* *saved* *me* *?* *''*
*She* *made* *haste* *to* *dress* *herself* *.*
*She* *found* *herself* *alone* *once* *more* *,* *meditating* *upon* *the* *singular* *words* *of* *this* *almost* *monstrous* *being* *,* *and* *struck* *by* *the* *sound* *of* *his* *voice* *,* *which* *was* *so* *hoarse* *yet* *so* *gentle* *.*
*Stay* *,* *I* *have* *placed* *myself* *behind* *the* *wall* *.*
*When* *I* *compare* *myself* *to* *you* *,* *I* *feel* *a* *very* *great* *pity* *for* *myself* *,* *poor* *unhappy* *monster* *that* *I* *am* *!*
*An* *unreasonable* *explanation* *,* *but* *she* *contented* *herself* *with* *it* *,* *because* *she* *needed* *to* *believe* *that* *Phoebus* *still* *loved* *her* *,* *and* *loved* *her* *alone* *.*
*She* *took* *care* *to* *dress* *herself* *in* *the* *morning* *in* *the* *corner* *of* *her* *cell* *for* *fear* *some* *inhabitants* *of* *the* *neighboring* *attics* *might* *see* *her* *through* *the* *window* *.*
*She* *often* *reproached* *herself* *for* *not* *feeling* *a* *gratitude* *which* *should* *close* *her* *eyes* *,* *but* *decidedly* *,* *she* *could* *not* *accustom* *herself* *to* *the* *poor* *bellringer* *.*
*On* *another* *occasion* *he* *presented* *himself* *at* *the* *door* *of* *the* *cell* *(* *which* *he* *never* *entered* *)* *at* *the* *moment* *when* *la* *Esmeralda* *was* *singing* *an* *old* *Spanish* *ballad* *,* *the* *words* *of* *which* *she* *did* *not* *understand* *,* *but* *which* *had* *lingered* *in* *her* *ear* *because* *the* *gypsy* *women* *had* *lulled* *her* *to* *sleep* *with* *it* *when* *she* *was* *a* *little* *child* *.*
*By* *degrees* *,* *however* *,* *her* *terror* *disappeared* *,* *and* *she* *yielded* *herself* *wholly* *to* *the* *slow* *and* *melancholy* *air* *which* *she* *was* *singing* *.* *He* *remained* *on* *his* *knees* *with* *hands* *clasped* *,* *as* *in* *prayer* *,* *attentive* *,* *hardly* *breathing* *,* *his* *gaze* *riveted* *upon* *the* *gypsy* *'s* *brilliant* *eyes* *.*
*He* *had* *placed* *himself* *in* *that* *position* *in* *order* *to* *spare* *the* *young* *girl* *,* *as* *far* *as* *possible* *,* *the* *displeasure* *of* *seeing* *him* *.*
*The* *young* *man* *and* *the* *young* *girl* *,* *so* *far* *as* *our* *deaf* *man* *could* *judge* *,* *without* *hearing* *a* *single* *one* *of* *their* *words* *,* *appeared* *to* *abandon* *themselves* *to* *a* *very* *tender* *tte* ** *a* ** *tte* *.*
*He* *made* *a* *motion* *to* *fling* *himself* *on* *the* *captain* *.*
*Then* *he* *drew* *himself* *up* *stiffly* *and* *said* *,* ** ** *``* *Oh* *!* *how* *happy* *you* *are* *to* *have* *some* *one* *who* *loves* *you* *!* *''*
*Moreover* *,* *Quasimodo* *did* *not* *deceive* *himself* *on* *this* *point* *.*
*She* *troubled* *herself* *very* *little* *about* *it* *.*
*He* *had* *reconciled* *himself* *to* *la* *Esmeralda* *'s* *death* *.*
*When* *he* *heard* *this* *news* *,* *he* *shut* *himself* *in* *his* *cell* *in* *the* *cloister* *.*
*From* *that* *window* *,* *situated* *in* *the* *cloister* *,* *he* *could* *see* *la* *Esmeralda* *'s* *chamber* *.* *He* *often* *saw* *herself* *with* *her* *goat* *,* *sometimes* *with* *Quasimodo* *.*
*He* *asked* *himself* *what* *motive* *could* *have* *impelled* *Quasimodo* *to* *save* *her* *.*
*A* *moment* *later* *she* *felt* *a* *touch* *along* *her* *body* *which* *made* *her* *shudder* *so* *that* *she* *straightened* *herself* *up* *in* *a* *sitting* *posture* *,* *wide* *awake* *and* *furious* *.*
*Almost* *at* *the* *same* *instant* *he* *felt* *himself* *raised* *by* *a* *vigorous* *arm* *.*
*He* *flung* *himself* *on* *the* *arm* *which* *held* *the* *knife* *,* *crying* *:* *``* *Quasimodo* *!* *''* *He* *forgot* *,* *at* *that* *moment* *of* *distress* *,* *that* *Quasimodo* *was* *deaf* *.*
*As* *soon* *as* *Pierre* *Gringoire* *had* *seen* *how* *this* *whole* *affair* *was* *turning* *,* *and* *that* *there* *would* *decidedly* *be* *the* *rope* *,* *hanging* *,* *and* *other* *disagreeable* *things* *for* *the* *principal* *personages* *in* *this* *comedy* *,* *he* *had* *not* *cared* *to* *identify* *himself* *with* *the* *matter* *further* *.*
*The* *outcasts* *with* *whom* *he* *had* *remained* *,* *reflecting* *that* *,* *after* *all* *,* *it* *was* *the* *best* *company* *in* *Paris* *,* ** ** *the* *outcasts* *had* *continued* *to* *interest* *themselves* *in* *behalf* *of* *the* *gypsy* *.*
*He* *also* *occupied* *himself* *with* *annotating* *the* *fine* *work* *of* *Baudry* ** *le* ** *Rouge* *,* *Bishop* *of* *Noyon* *and* *Tournay* *,* *De* *Cupa* *Petrarum* *,* *which* *had* *given* *him* *a* *violent* *passion* *for* *architecture* *,* *an* *inclination* *which* *had* *replaced* *in* *his* *heart* *his* *passion* *for* *hermeticism* *,* *of* *which* *it* *was* *,* *moreover* *,* *only* *a* *natural* *corollary* *,* *since* *there* *is* *an* *intimate* *relation* *between* *hermeticism* *and* *masonry* *.*
*``* *And* *who* *the* *devil* *,* *''* *resumed* *the* *poet* *,* *"* *has* *amused* *himself* *with* *soliciting* *a* *decree* *of* *reintegration* *?*
*``* *I* *ask* *nothing* *better* *,* *Dom* *Claude* *;* *but* *what* *if* *I* *entangle* *myself* *in* *some* *villanous* *affair* *?* *''*
*I* *do* *not* *see* *why* *I* *should* *get* *myself* *hanged* *in* *some* *one* *else* *'s* *place* *.* *"*
*Jehan* *,* *allow* *yourself* *to* *be* *punished* *at* *the* *discretion* *of* *the* *master* *.*
*The* *very* *children* *were* *arming* *themselves* *,* *and* *there* *were* *even* *cripples* *in* *bowls* *who* *,* *in* *armor* *and* *cuirass* *,* *made* *their* *way* *between* *the* *legs* *of* *the* *drinkers* *,* *like* *great* *beetles* *.*
*``* *Be* *quick* *!* *make* *haste* *,* *arm* *yourselves* *!* *we* *set* *out* *on* *the* *march* *in* *an* *hour* *!* *''* *said* *Clopin* *Trouillefou* *to* *his* *thieves* *.*
*Have* *you* *seen* *him* *make* *himself* *breathless* *on* *the* *big* *bell* *on* *a* *grand* *Pentecost* *festival* *!* *~* *Corne* *du* *Pre* *~* *!* *it* *is* *very* *fine* *!*
*My* *mother* *wanted* *to* *make* *an* *officer* *of* *me* *;* *my* *father* *,* *a* *sub* ** *deacon* *;* *my* *aunt* *,* *a* *councillor* *of* *inquests* *;* *my* *grandmother* *,* *prothonotary* *to* *the* *king* *;* *my* *great* *aunt* *,* *a* *treasurer* *of* *the* *short* *robe* *,* ** ** *and* *I* *have* *made* *myself* *an* *outcast* *.*
*Meanwhile* *,* *the* *vagabonds* *continued* *to* *arm* *themselves* *and* *whisper* *at* *the* *other* *end* *of* *the* *dram* ** *shop* *.*
*As* *he* *threw* *himself* *back* *on* *the* *bosom* *of* *the* *wench* *beside* *him* *,* *he* *exclaimed* *,* ** **
*Comrade* *!* *you* *have* *the* *air* *of* *a* *merchant* *of* *tennis* ** *balls* *;* *and* *you* *come* *and* *sit* *yourself* *beside* *me* *!*
*At* *the* *most* *,* *he* *gazed* *uneasily* *after* *Dom* *Claude* *when* *the* *latter* *ascended* *the* *staircase* *of* *the* *tower* *;* *but* *the* *archdeacon* *had* *abstained* *from* *presenting* *himself* *again* *before* *the* *gypsy* *'s* *eyes* *.*
*It* *is* *probable* *that* *this* *singular* *procession* *,* *which* *seemed* *so* *desirous* *of* *concealing* *itself* *under* *profound* *darkness* *,* *maintained* *a* *silence* *no* *less* *profound* *.*
*Then* *his* *fears* *returned* *to* *him* *,* *the* *idea* *of* *an* *attempt* *against* *the* *gypsy* *presented* *itself* *once* *more* *to* *his* *mind* *.*
*No* *boat* *,* *no* *issue* *!* ** ** *There* *was* *but* *one* *thing* *to* *be* *done* *;* *to* *allow* *himself* *to* *be* *killed* *on* *the* *threshold* *of* *Notre* ** *Dame* *,* *to* *resist* *at* *least* *until* *succor* *arrived* *,* *if* *it* *should* *arrive* *,* *and* *not* *to* *trouble* *la* *Esmeralda* *'s* *sleep* *.*
*Clopin* *Trouillefou* *had* *placed* *himself* *at* *the* *apex* *with* *the* *Duke* *of* *Egypt* *,* *our* *friend* *Jehan* *,* *and* *the* *most* *daring* *of* *the* *scavengers* *.*
*They* *betook* *themselves* *to* *the* *principal* *door* *of* *the* *church* *,* *ascended* *the* *steps* *,* *and* *were* *soon* *to* *be* *seen* *squatting* *under* *the* *arch* *,* *working* *at* *the* *door* *with* *pincers* *and* *levers* *;* *a* *throng* *of* *vagabonds* *followed* *them* *to* *help* *or* *look* *on* *.*
*"* *Throat* *of* *God* *!* *are* *the* *canons* *defending* *themselves* *?*
*The* *windows* *were* *immediately* *closed* *,* *and* *the* *poor* *bourgeois* *,* *who* *had* *hardly* *had* *time* *to* *cast* *a* *frightened* *glance* *on* *this* *scene* *of* *gleams* *and* *tumult* *,* *returned* *,* *perspiring* *with* *fear* *to* *their* *wives* *,* *asking* *themselves* *whether* *the* *witches* *'* *sabbath* *was* *now* *being* *held* *in* *the* *parvis* *of* *Notre* ** *Dame* *,* *or* *whether* *there* *was* *an* *assault* *of* *Burgundians* *,* *as* *in* *'* *64* *.* *Then* *the* *husbands* *thought* *of* *theft* *;* *the* *wives* *,* *of* *rape* *;* *and* *all* *trembled* *.*
*Evidently* *,* *the* *bishop* *was* *defending* *himself* *,* *and* *they* *only* *battered* *the* *door* *with* *the* *more* *rage* *,* *in* *spite* *of* *the* *stones* *which* *cracked* *skulls* *right* *and* *left* *.*
*He* *had* *run* *up* *and* *down* *along* *the* *gallery* *for* *several* *minutes* *like* *a* *madman* *,* *surveying* *from* *above* *,* *the* *compact* *mass* *of* *vagabonds* *ready* *to* *hurl* *itself* *on* *the* *church* *,* *demanding* *the* *safety* *of* *the* *gypsy* *from* *the* *devil* *or* *from* *God* *.*
*Thus* *,* *as* *soon* *as* *they* *began* *to* *batter* *the* *grand* *door* *,* *the* *shower* *of* *rough* *blocks* *of* *stone* *began* *to* *fall* *,* *and* *it* *seemed* *to* *them* *that* *the* *church* *itself* *was* *being* *demolished* *over* *their* *heads* *.*
*Independently* *of* *the* *projectiles* *which* *he* *had* *piled* *upon* *the* *balustrade* *,* *he* *had* *collected* *a* *heap* *of* *stones* *on* *the* *platform* *itself* *.*
*All* *at* *once* *,* *at* *the* *moment* *when* *they* *were* *grouping* *themselves* *round* *the* *ram* *for* *a* *last* *effort* *,* *each* *one* *holding* *his* *breath* *and* *stiffening* *his* *muscles* *in* *order* *to* *communicate* *all* *his* *force* *to* *the* *decisive* *blow* *,* *a* *howl* *more* *frightful* *still* *than* *that* *which* *had* *burst* *forth* *and* *expired* *beneath* *the* *beam* *,* *rose* *among* *them* *.*
*``* *Churches* *have* *been* *known* *to* *defend* *themselves* *thus* *all* *by* *themselves* *,* *''* *he* *remarked* *with* *a* *sigh* *.*
*At* *the* *sight* *of* *this* *line* *of* *cuirassed* *backs* *,* *undulating* *as* *they* *rose* *through* *the* *gloom* *,* *one* *would* *have* *pronounced* *it* *a* *serpent* *with* *steel* *scales* *,* *which* *was* *raising* *itself* *erect* *in* *front* *of* *the* *church* *.*
*He* *found* *himself* *in* *the* *gallery* *with* *the* *formidable* *bellringer* *,* *alone* *,* *separated* *from* *his* *companions* *by* *a* *vertical* *wall* *eighty* *feet* *high* *.*
*Jehan* *had* *then* *concealed* *himself* *behind* *a* *stone* *king* *,* *not* *daring* *to* *breathe* *,* *and* *fixing* *upon* *the* *monstrous* *hunchback* *a* *frightened* *gaze* *,* *like* *the* *man* *,* *who* *,* *when* *courting* *the* *wife* *of* *the* *guardian* *of* *a* *menagerie* *,* *went* *one* *evening* *to* *a* *love* *rendezvous* *,* *mistook* *the* *wall* *which* *he* *was* *to* *climb* *,* *and* *suddenly* *found* *himself* *face* *to* *face* *with* *a* *white* *bear* *.*
*Jehan* *prepared* *himself* *for* *a* *rough* *shock* *,* *but* *the* *deaf* *man* *remained* *motionless* *;* *only* *he* *had* *turned* *towards* *the* *scholar* *and* *was* *looking* *at* *him* *.*
*When* *the* *scholar* *beheld* *himself* *disarmed* *,* *stripped* *,* *weak* *,* *and* *naked* *in* *those* *terrible* *hands* *,* *he* *made* *no* *attempt* *to* *speak* *to* *the* *deaf* *man* *,* *but* *began* *to* *laugh* *audaciously* *in* *his* *face* *,* *and* *to* *sing* *with* *his* *intrepid* *heedlessness* *of* *a* *child* *of* *sixteen* *,* *the* *then* *popular* *ditty* *:* **
*He* *felt* *himself* *lost* *amid* *all* *this* *grandeur* *.*
*During* *the* *king* *'s* *absence* *,* *several* *despatches* *had* *been* *placed* *on* *his* *table* *,* *and* *he* *broke* *the* *seals* *himself* *.*
*At* *the* *moment* *when* *he* *finished* *it* *,* *the* *door* *opened* *and* *gave* *passage* *to* *a* *new* *personage* *,* *who* *precipitated* *himself* *into* *the* *chamber* *,* *crying* *in* *affright* *,* ** **
*He* *controlled* *himself* *and* *said* *with* *tranquil* *severity* *,* ** **
*He* *rubbed* *his* *hands* *,* *he* *laughed* *with* *that* *inward* *mirth* *which* *makes* *the* *countenance* *beam* *;* *he* *was* *unable* *to* *dissimulate* *his* *joy* *,* *although* *he* *endeavored* *at* *moments* *to* *compose* *himself* *.*
*He* *corrected* *himself* *.* *``* *What* *is* *the* *bailiff* *'s* *feudal* *jurisdiction* *?* *''*
*This* *time* *he* *did* *not* *correct* *himself* *.*
*Here* *he* *interrupted* *himself* *abruptly* *,* *bit* *his* *lips* *as* *though* *to* *take* *back* *his* *thought* *which* *had* *already* *half* *escaped* *,* *bent* *his* *piercing* *eyes* *in* *turn* *on* *each* *of* *the* *five* *persons* *who* *surrounded* *him* *,* *and* *suddenly* *grasping* *his* *hat* *with* *both* *hands* *and* *staring* *full* *at* *it* *,* *he* *said* *to* *it* *:* *``* *Oh* *!* *I* *would* *burn* *you* *if* *you* *knew* *what* *there* *was* *in* *my* *head* *.* *''*
*``* *How* *do* *you* *permit* *yourself* *,* *knave* *,* *to* *go* *and* *besiege* *our* *friend* *,* *monsieur* *the* *bailiff* *of* *the* *palace* *,* *and* *what* *have* *you* *to* *say* *concerning* *this* *popular* *agitation* *?* *''*
*He* *perceived* *from* *the* *king* *'s* *cold* *and* *indifferent* *mien* *that* *there* *was* *no* *other* *resource* *than* *something* *very* *pathetic* *,* *and* *he* *flung* *himself* *at* *the* *feet* *of* *Louis* *XI* *.* *,* *exclaiming* *,* *with* *gestures* *of* *despair* *:* ** **
*I* *am* *not* *the* *man* *to* *fling* *myself* *into* *those* *clouds* *which* *break* *out* *into* *seditious* *clamor* *.*
*So* *saying* *,* *the* *unhappy* *Gringoire* *kissed* *the* *king* *'s* *slippers* *,* *and* *Guillaume* *Rym* *said* *to* *Coppenole* *in* *a* *low* *tone* *:* *"* *He* *doth* *well* *to* *drag* *himself* *on* *the* *earth* *.*
*And* *without* *troubling* *himself* *about* *the* *Jupiter* *of* *Crete* *,* *the* *hosier* *replied* *with* *a* *heavy* *smile* *,* *and* *his* *eyes* *fixed* *on* *Gringoire* *:* *"* *Oh* *!* *that* *'s* *it* *exactly* *!*
*The* *king* *'s* *good* *humor* *since* *the* *revolt* *against* *the* *bailiff* *had* *been* *announced* *to* *him* *,* *made* *itself* *apparent* *in* *every* *way* *.*
*In* *November* *,* *'* *73* *,* *by* *letters* *given* *to* *Gergeole* *,* *we* *instituted* *you* *keeper* *of* *the* *Wood* *of* *Vincennes* *,* *in* *the* *place* *of* *Gilbert* *Acle* *,* *equerry* *;* *in* *'* *75* *,* *gruyer* *** *of* *the* *forest* *of* *Rouvray* ** *lez* ** *Saint* ** *Cloud* *,* *in* *the* *place* *of* *Jacques* *le* *Maire* *;* *in* *'* *78* *,* *we* *graciously* *settled* *on* *you* *,* *by* *letters* *patent* *sealed* *doubly* *with* *green* *wax* *,* *an* *income* *of* *ten* *livres* *parisis* *,* *for* *you* *and* *your* *wife* *,* *on* *the* *Place* *of* *the* *Merchants* *,* *situated* *at* *the* *School* *Saint* ** *Germain* *;* *in* *'* *79* *,* *we* *made* *you* *gruyer* *of* *the* *forest* *of* *Senart* *,* *in* *place* *of* *that* *poor* *Jehan* *Daiz* *;* *then* *captain* *of* *the* *Chteau* *of* *Loches* *;* *then* *governor* *of* *Saint* ** *Quentin* *;* *then* *captain* *of* *the* *bridge* *of* *Meulan* *,* *of* *which* *you* *cause* *yourself* *to* *be* *called* *comte* *.*
*But* *Advoyer* *Scharnachtal* *hurled* *himself* *on* *the* *handsome* *duke* *with* *his* *battle* ** *club* *and* *his* *people* *,* *and* *when* *the* *glittering* *Burgundian* *army* *came* *in* *contact* *with* *these* *peasants* *in* *bull* *hides* *,* *it* *flew* *in* *pieces* *like* *a* *pane* *of* *glass* *at* *the* *blow* *of* *a* *pebble* *.*
*Louis* *XI.* *returned* *and* *seated* *himself* *,* *saying* *,* *with* *a* *smile* *,* ** ** *``* *Ah* *!* *here* *they* *have* *only* *got* *as* *far* *as* *the* *bailiffs* *.* *''* *At* *that* *instant* *Olivier* *le* *Daim* *returned* *.*
*``* *Against* *you* *,* *sire* *?* *'* *The* *aged* *king* *rose* *erect* *and* *straight* *as* *a* *young* *man* *,* ** ** *''* *Explain* *yourself* *,* *Olivier* *!*
*Ah* *!* *messieurs* *,* *louts* *of* *Paris* *,* *do* *you* *fling* *yourselves* *thus* *against* *the* *crown* *of* *France* *,* *the* *sanctity* *of* *Notre* ** *Dame* *,* *and* *the* *peace* *of* *this* *commonwealth* *!*
*Here* *,* *as* *though* *seized* *with* *a* *sudden* *idea* *,* *he* *flung* *himself* *on* *his* *knees* *before* *his* *chair* *,* *took* *off* *his* *hat* *,* *placed* *it* *on* *the* *seat* *,* *and* *gazing* *devoutly* *at* *one* *of* *the* *leaden* *amulets* *which* *loaded* *it* *down* *,*
*The* *brave* *deaf* *man* *,* *assailed* *on* *all* *sides* *,* *had* *lost* *,* *if* *not* *all* *courage* *,* *at* *least* *all* *hope* *of* *saving* *,* *not* *himself* *(* *he* *was* *not* *thinking* *of* *himself* *)* *,* *but* *the* *gypsy* *.*
*They* *defended* *themselves* *like* *desperate* *men* *.*
*Caught* *on* *the* *flank* *,* *by* *the* *Rue* *Saint* ** *Pierre* ** *aux* ** *Boeufs* *,* *and* *in* *the* *rear* *through* *the* *Rue* *du* *Parvis* *,* *driven* *to* *bay* *against* *Notre* ** *Dame* *,* *which* *they* *still* *assailed* *and* *Quasimodo* *defended* *,* *at* *the* *same* *time* *besiegers* *and* *besieged* *,* *they* *were* *in* *the* *singular* *situation* *in* *which* *Comte* *Henri* *Harcourt* *,* *~* *Taurinum* *obsessor* *idem* *et* *obsessus* *~* *,* *as* *his* *epitaph* *says* *,* *found* *himself* *later* *on* *,* *at* *the* *famous* *siege* *of* *Turin* *,* *in* *1640* *,* *between* *Prince* *Thomas* *of* *Savoy* *,* *whom* *he* *was* *besieging* *,* *and* *the* *Marquis* *de* *Leganez* *,* *who* *was* *blockading* *him* *.*
*The* *king* *'s* *cavaliers* *,* *in* *whose* *midst* *Phoebus* *de* *Chteaupers* *bore* *himself* *valiantly* *,* *gave* *no* *quarter* *,* *and* *the* *slash* *of* *the* *sword* *disposed* *of* *those* *who* *escaped* *the* *thrust* *of* *the* *lance* *.*
*Men* *,* *women* *,* *children* *,* *hurled* *themselves* *on* *the* *cruppers* *and* *the* *breasts* *of* *the* *horses* *,* *and* *hung* *there* *like* *cats* *,* *with* *teeth* *,* *finger* *nails* *and* *toe* *nails* *.*
*But* *little* *by* *little* *the* *first* *vapors* *of* *terror* *had* *been* *dissipated* *;* *from* *the* *constantly* *increasing* *noise* *,* *and* *from* *many* *other* *signs* *of* *reality* *,* *she* *felt* *herself* *besieged* *not* *by* *spectres* *,* *but* *by* *human* *beings* *.*
*No* *sooner* *had* *he* *entered* *than* *it* *rubbed* *itself* *gently* *against* *his* *knees* *,* *covering* *the* *poet* *with* *caresses* *and* *with* *white* *hairs* *,* *for* *it* *was* *shedding* *its* *hair* *.*
*She* *was* *obliged* *to* *content* *herself* *with* *this* *explanation* *.*
*She* *allowed* *herself* *to* *be* *led* *away* *.*
*The* *man* *was* *the* *last* *to* *step* *in* *.* *Then* *he* *cut* *the* *boat* *'s* *moorings* *,* *pushed* *it* *from* *the* *shore* *with* *a* *long* *boat* ** *hook* *,* *and* *,* *seizing* *two* *oars* *,* *seated* *himself* *in* *the* *bow* *,* *rowing* *with* *all* *his* *might* *towards* *midstream* *.*
*He* *took* *a* *position* *in* *the* *stern* *;* *and* *the* *young* *girl* *,* *whom* *the* *stranger* *inspired* *with* *an* *indefinable* *uneasiness* *,* *seated* *herself* *close* *to* *the* *poet* *.*
*But* *the* *man* *in* *black* *finally* *recovered* *himself* *,* *seized* *the* *oars* *once* *more* *and* *began* *to* *row* *against* *the* *current* *.*
*Thus* *she* *remained* *for* *a* *moment* *,* *stunned* *,* *watching* *the* *water* *flow* *past* *;* *when* *she* *gradually* *returned* *to* *her* *senses* *,* *she* *found* *herself* *alone* *on* *the* *wharf* *with* *the* *unknown* *.*
*The* *poor* *gypsy* *shivered* *when* *she* *beheld* *herself* *alone* *with* *this* *man* *.*
*She* *had* *no* *more* *resistance* *left* *in* *her* *,* *she* *allowed* *herself* *to* *be* *dragged* *along* *,* *running* *while* *he* *walked* *.*
*She* *tore* *herself* *from* *his* *hands* *and* *fell* *at* *the* *foot* *of* *the* *gibbet* *,* *embracing* *that* *funereal* *support* *,* *then* *she* *half* *turned* *her* *beautiful* *head* *,* *and* *looked* *at* *the* *priest* *over* *her* *shoulder* *.*
*Above* *all* *things* *,* *do* *not* *speak* *to* *me* *of* *the* *officer* *!* ** ** *I* *would* *cast* *myself* *at* *your* *knees* *,* *I* *would* *kiss* *not* *your* *feet* *,* *but* *the* *earth* *which* *is* *under* *your* *feet* *;* *I* *would* *sob* *like* *a* *child* *,* *I* *would* *tear* *from* *my* *breast* *not* *words* *,* *but* *my* *very* *heart* *and* *vitals* *,* *to* *tell* *you* *that* *I* *love* *you* *;* ** ** *all* *would* *be* *useless* *,* *all* *!* ** ** *And* *yet* *you* *have* *nothing* *in* *your* *heart* *but* *what* *is* *tender* *and* *merciful* *.*
*He* *flung* *himself* *on* *his* *knees* *to* *receive* *with* *adoration* *the* *word* *,* *possibly* *a* *tender* *one* *,* *which* *was* *on* *the* *point* *of* *issuing* *from* *her* *lips* *.*
*She* *thought* *herself* *victorious* *,* *and* *continued* *,* ** **
*The* *young* *girl* *felt* *herself* *seized* *suddenly* *by* *the* *elbow* *.*
*Panting* *with* *terror* *,* *she* *tried* *to* *disengage* *herself* *.*
*The* *young* *girl* *passed* *her* *arm* *through* *the* *opening* *;* *the* *recluse* *threw* *herself* *on* *that* *hand* *,* *pressed* *her* *lips* *to* *it* *and* *there* *remained* *,* *buried* *in* *that* *kiss* *,* *giving* *no* *other* *sign* *of* *life* *than* *a* *sob* *which* *heaved* *her* *breast* *from* *time* *to* *time* *.*
*The* *gypsy* *threw* *herself* *with* *anguish* *into* *the* *arms* *of* *the* *sacked* *nun* *.*
*Hide* *yourself* *in* *this* *corner* *.*
*The* *mother* *rose* *quickly* *and* *went* *to* *post* *herself* *before* *her* *window* *,* *in* *order* *to* *stop* *it* *up* *.*
*She* *had* *flung* *the* *poor* *gypsy* *,* *half* *dead* *,* *into* *the* *corner* *of* *the* *cellar* *,* *and* *had* *placed* *herself* *once* *more* *at* *the* *window* *with* *both* *hands* *resting* *on* *the* *angle* *of* *the* *sill* *like* *two* *claws* *.*
*Five* *or* *six* *of* *the* *provost* *'s* *men* *armed* *themselves* *with* *picks* *and* *crowbars* *,* *and* *Tristan* *betook* *himself* *,* *in* *company* *with* *them* *,* *towards* *the* *window* *.*
*The* *recluse* *had* *gone* *and* *seated* *herself* *by* *her* *daughter* *,* *covering* *her* *with* *her* *body* *,* *in* *front* *of* *her* *,* *with* *staring* *eyes* *,* *listening* *to* *the* *poor* *child* *,* *who* *did* *not* *stir* *,* *but* *who* *kept* *murmuring* *in* *a* *low* *voice* *,* *these* *words* *only* *,* *"* *Phoebus* *!*
*She* *threw* *herself* *upon* *it* *,* *she* *tried* *to* *hold* *it* *back* *;* *she* *scratched* *the* *stone* *with* *her* *nails* *,* *but* *the* *massive* *block* *,* *set* *in* *movement* *by* *six* *men* *,* *escaped* *her* *and* *glided* *gently* *to* *the* *ground* *along* *the* *iron* *levers* *.*
*The* *mother* *offered* *no* *resistance* *,* *only* *she* *dragged* *herself* *towards* *her* *daughter* *and* *threw* *herself* *bodily* *upon* *her* *.*
*Then* *she* *shook* *herself* *and* *shrieked* *in* *a* *loud* *and* *heartrending* *voice* *:* *"* *No* *!* *no* *!*
*Without* *uttering* *a* *cry* *,* *she* *raised* *herself* *erect* *with* *a* *terrible* *expression* *;* *then* *she* *flung* *herself* *upon* *the* *hand* *of* *the* *executioner* *,* *like* *a* *beast* *on* *its* *prey* *,* *and* *bit* *it* *.*
*Quasimodo* *,* *left* *alone* *in* *that* *vast* *Notre* ** *Dame* *,* *so* *besieged* *and* *tumultuous* *but* *a* *short* *time* *before* *,* *once* *more* *betook* *himself* *to* *the* *cell* *where* *the* *gypsy* *had* *slept* *for* *so* *many* *weeks* *under* *his* *guardianship* *.*
*All* *at* *once* *,* *he* *crushed* *his* *torch* *under* *his* *foot* *,* *and* *,* *without* *uttering* *a* *word* *,* *without* *giving* *vent* *to* *a* *sigh* *,* *he* *flung* *himself* *at* *full* *speed* *,* *head* *foremost* *against* *the* *wall* *,* *and* *fell* *fainting* *on* *the* *floor* *.*
*When* *he* *recovered* *his* *senses* *,* *he* *threw* *himself* *on* *the* *bed* *and* *rolling* *about* *,* *he* *kissed* *frantically* *the* *place* *where* *the* *young* *girl* *had* *slept* *and* *which* *was* *still* *warm* *;* *he* *remained* *there* *for* *several* *moments* *asmotionless* *as* *though* *he* *were* *about* *to* *expire* *;* *then* *he* *rose* *,* *dripping* *with* *perspiration* *,* *panting* *,* *mad* *,* *and* *began* *to* *beat* *his* *head* *against* *the* *wall* *with* *the* *frightful* *regularity* *of* *the* *clapper* *of* *his* *bells* *,* *and* *the* *resolution* *of* *a* *man* *determined* *to* *kill* *himself* *.*
*At* *length* *he* *fell* *a* *second* *time* *,* *exhausted* *;* *he* *dragged* *himself* *on* *his* *knees* *outside* *the* *cell* *,* *and* *crouched* *down* *facing* *the* *door* *,* *in* *an* *attitude* *of* *astonishment* *.*
*The* *bellringer* *retreated* *several* *paces* *behind* *the* *archdeacon* *,* *and* *suddenly* *hurling* *himself* *upon* *him* *with* *fury* *,* *with* *his* *huge* *hands* *he* *pushed* *him* *by* *the* *back* *over* *into* *the* *abyss* *over* *which* *Dom* *Claude* *was* *leaning* *.*
*It* *was* *on* *this* *retreating* *angle* *that* *miserable* *archdeacon* *exhausted* *himself* *.*
*There* *he* *hung* *,* *embracing* *the* *gutter* *,* *hardly* *breathing* *,* *no* *longer* *stirring* *,* *making* *no* *longer* *any* *other* *movements* *than* *that* *mechanical* *convulsion* *of* *the* *stomach* *,* *which* *one* *experiences* *in* *dreams* *when* *one* *fancies* *himself* *falling* *.*
*In* *the* *Parvis* *there* *were* *several* *groups* *of* *curious* *good* *people* *,* *who* *were* *tranquilly* *seeking* *to* *divine* *who* *the* *madman* *could* *be* *who* *was* *amusing* *himself* *in* *so* *strange* *a* *manner* *.*
*He* *stiffened* *himself* *upon* *the* *spout* *,* *pushed* *against* *the* *wall* *with* *both* *his* *knees* *,* *clung* *to* *a* *crevice* *in* *the* *stones* *with* *his* *hands* *,* *and* *succeeded* *in* *climbing* *back* *with* *one* *foot* *,* *perhaps* *;* *but* *this* *effort* *made* *the* *leaden* *beak* *on* *which* *he* *rested* *bend* *abruptly* *.*
*``* *I* *want* *neither* *to* *stay* *here* *nor* *to* *be* *spoken* *to* *by* *you* *until* *you* *'ve* *introduced* *yourself* *.* *''* *``* *I* *meant* *it* *for* *your* *own* *good* *,* *''* *said* *the* *stranger* *and* *opened* *the* *door* *,* *this* *time* *without* *being* *asked* *.*
*She* *was* *showing* *an* *inquisitiveness* *that* *really* *made* *it* *seem* *like* *she* *was* *going* *senile* *.* *``* *I* *want* *to* *see* *Mrs.* *Grubach* *...* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *,* *making* *a* *movement* *as* *if* *tearing* *himself* *away* *from* *the* *two* *men* *-* *even* *though* *they* *were* *standing* *well* *away* *from* *him* *-* *and* *wanted* *to* *go* *.*
*K.* *found* *himself* *,* *without* *intending* *it* *,* *in* *a* *mute* *dialogue* *with* *Franz* *,* *but* *then* *slapped* *his* *hand* *down* *on* *his* *papers* *and* *said* *,* *``* *Here* *are* *my* *identity* *documents* *.* *''*
*``* *It* *'s* *probably* *exists* *only* *in* *your* *heads* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *,* *he* *wanted* *,* *in* *some* *way* *,* *to* *insinuate* *his* *way* *into* *the* *thoughts* *of* *the* *policemen* *,* *to* *re-shape* *those* *thoughts* *to* *his* *benefit* *or* *to* *make* *himself* *at* *home* *there* *.*
*K.* *stopped* *talking* *with* *them* *;* *do* *I* *,* *he* *thought* *to* *himself* *,* *do* *I* *really* *have* *to* *carry* *on* *getting* *tangled* *up* *with* *the* *chattering* *of* *base* *functionaries* *like* *this* *?* *-* *and* *they* *admit* *themselves* *that* *they* *are* *of* *the* *lowest* *position* *.*
*If* *you* *take* *our* *advice* *,* *you* *wo* *n't* *tire* *yourself* *out* *thinking* *about* *things* *to* *no* *purpose* *,* *you* *need* *to* *pull* *yourself* *together* *as* *there* *'s* *a* *lot* *that* *'s* *going* *to* *required* *of* *you* *.*
*He* *threw* *himself* *down* *on* *his* *bed* *,* *and* *from* *the* *dressing* *table* *he* *took* *the* *nice* *apple* *that* *he* *had* *put* *there* *the* *previous* *evening* *for* *his* *breakfast* *.*
*It* *puzzled* *K.* *,* *at* *least* *it* *puzzled* *him* *looking* *at* *it* *from* *the* *policemen* *'s* *point* *of* *view* *,* *that* *they* *had* *made* *him* *go* *into* *the* *room* *and* *left* *him* *alone* *there* *,* *where* *he* *had* *ten* *different* *ways* *of* *killing* *himself* *.*
*At* *the* *same* *time* *,* *though* *,* *he* *asked* *himself* *,* *this* *time* *looking* *at* *it* *from* *his* *own* *point* *of* *view* *,* *what* *reason* *he* *could* *have* *to* *do* *so* *.*
*It* *would* *have* *been* *so* *pointless* *to* *kill* *himself* *that* *,* *even* *if* *he* *had* *wanted* *to* *,* *the* *pointlessness* *would* *have* *made* *him* *unable* *.*
*They* *could* *watch* *now* *,* *if* *they* *wanted* *,* *and* *see* *how* *he* *went* *over* *to* *the* *cupboard* *in* *the* *wall* *where* *he* *kept* *a* *bottle* *of* *good* *schnapps* *,* *how* *he* *first* *emptied* *a* *glass* *of* *it* *in* *place* *of* *his* *breakfast* *and* *how* *he* *then* *took* *a* *second* *glassful* *in* *order* *to* *give* *himself* *courage* *,* *the* *last* *one* *just* *as* *a* *precaution* *for* *the* *unlikely* *chance* *it* *would* *be* *needed* *.*
*``* *Well* *that* *'s* *alright* *by* *me* *if* *it* *makes* *things* *go* *any* *faster* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *He* *opened* *the* *wardrobe* *himself* *,* *spent* *a* *long* *time* *searching* *through* *all* *the* *clothes* *,* *and* *chose* *his* *best* *black* *suit* *which* *had* *a* *short* *jacket* *that* *had* *greatly* *surprised* *those* *who* *knew* *him* *,* *then* *he* *also* *pulled* *out* *a* *fresh* *shirt* *and* *began* *,* *carefully* *,* *to* *get* *dressed* *.*
*He* *secretly* *told* *himself* *that* *he* *had* *succeeded* *in* *speeding* *things* *up* *by* *letting* *the* *policemen* *forget* *to* *make* *him* *have* *a* *bath* *.*
*And* *the* *three* *of* *them* *did* *immediately* *retreat* *a* *few* *steps* *,* *the* *old* *pair* *even* *found* *themselves* *behind* *the* *man* *who* *then* *concealed* *them* *with* *the* *breadth* *of* *his* *body* *and* *seemed* *,* *going* *by* *the* *movements* *of* *his* *mouth* *,* *to* *be* *saying* *something* *incomprehensible* *into* *the* *distance* *.*
*Kaminer* *got* *to* *the* *hat* *and* *K.* *,* *as* *he* *often* *had* *to* *do* *at* *the* *bank* *,* *forcibly* *reminded* *himself* *that* *the* *grin* *was* *not* *deliberate* *,* *that* *he* *in* *fact* *was* *n't* *able* *to* *grin* *deliberately* *.*
*Kaminer* *ran* *to* *the* *corner* *to* *summon* *it* *,* *and* *the* *two* *others* *were* *making* *obvious* *efforts* *to* *keep* *K.* *diverted* *when* *Kullich* *pointed* *to* *the* *doorway* *of* *the* *house* *on* *the* *other* *side* *of* *the* *street* *where* *the* *large* *man* *with* *the* *blonde* *goatee* *beard* *appeared* *and* *,* *a* *little* *embarrassed* *at* *first* *at* *letting* *himself* *be* *seen* *in* *his* *full* *height* *,* *stepped* *back* *to* *the* *wall* *and* *leant* *against* *it* *.*
*K.* *was* *cross* *with* *Kullich* *for* *pointing* *out* *this* *man* *whom* *he* *had* *already* *seen* *himself* *,* *in* *fact* *whom* *he* *had* *been* *expecting* *.*
*This* *showed* *that* *K.* *was* *not* *very* *attentive* *,* *and* *he* *resolved* *to* *watch* *himself* *more* *carefully* *in* *this* *respect* *.*
*Nonetheless* *,* *he* *gave* *it* *no* *thought* *as* *he* *twisted* *himself* *round* *and* *leant* *over* *onto* *the* *rear* *shelf* *of* *the* *car* *to* *catch* *sight* *of* *the* *supervisor* *and* *the* *policemen* *if* *he* *could* *.*
*In* *particular* *,* *there* *was* *nothing* *to* *fear* *from* *the* *three* *bank* *officials* *,* *they* *had* *immersed* *themselves* *back* *into* *their* *paperwork* *and* *there* *was* *no* *alteration* *to* *be* *seen* *in* *them* *.*
*If* *I* *had* *got* *up* *as* *soon* *as* *I* *was* *awake* *without* *letting* *myself* *get* *confused* *because* *Anna* *was* *n't* *there* *,* *if* *I* *'d* *got* *up* *and* *paid* *no* *regard* *to* *anyone* *who* *might* *have* *been* *in* *my* *way* *and* *come* *straight* *to* *you* *,* *if* *I* *'d* *done* *something* *like* *having* *my* *breakfast* *in* *the* *kitchen* *as* *an* *exception* *,* *asked* *you* *to* *bring* *my* *clothes* *from* *my* *room* *,* *in* *short* *,* *if* *I* *had* *behaved* *sensibly* *then* *nothing* *more* *would* *have* *happened* *,* *everything* *that* *was* *waiting* *to* *happen* *would* *have* *been* *stifled* *.*
*In* *the* *bank* *,* *for* *example* *,* *I* *am* *well* *prepared* *,* *nothing* *of* *this* *sort* *could* *possibly* *happen* *to* *me* *there* *,* *I* *have* *my* *own* *assistant* *there* *,* *there* *are* *telephones* *for* *internal* *and* *external* *calls* *in* *front* *of* *me* *on* *the* *desk* *,* *I* *continually* *receive* *visits* *from* *people* *,* *representatives* *,* *officials* *,* *but* *besides* *that* *,* *and* *most* *importantly* *,* *I* *'m* *always* *occupied* *with* *my* *work* *,* *that* *'s* *to* *say* *I* *'m* *always* *alert* *,* *it* *would* *even* *be* *a* *pleasure* *for* *me* *to* *find* *myself* *faced* *with* *something* *of* *that* *sort* *.*
*``* *That* *'s* *how* *young* *people* *are* *!* *''* *said* *Mrs.* *Grubach* *in* *to* *excuse* *herself* *.*
*``* *It* *is* *odd* *,* *''* *said* *Miss* *Brstner* *,* *``* *that* *I* *'m* *forced* *to* *forbid* *you* *to* *do* *something* *that* *you* *ought* *to* *have* *forbidden* *yourself* *to* *do* *,* *namely* *to* *come* *into* *my* *room* *when* *I* *'m* *not* *here* *.* *''*
*``* *What* *'s* *too* *vague* *?* *''* *asked* *K.* *Then* *he* *remembered* *himself* *and* *asked* *,* *``* *Would* *you* *like* *me* *to* *show* *you* *what* *it* *was* *like* *?* *''* *He* *wanted* *to* *move* *in* *some* *way* *but* *did* *not* *want* *to* *leave* *.*
*Ah* *yes* *,* *I* *'m* *forgetting* *myself* *,* *the* *most* *important* *person* *of* *all* *,* *so* *I* *'m* *standing* *here* *in* *front* *of* *the* *table.* *the* *supervisor* *is* *sitting* *extremely* *comfortably* *with* *his* *legs* *crossed* *and* *his* *arm* *hanging* *over* *the* *backrest* *here* *like* *some* *layabout* *.*
*K.* *was* *too* *engrossed* *in* *his* *role* *and* *slowly* *called* *out* *,* *``* *Josef* *K.* *!* *.* *''* *It* *was* *not* *as* *loud* *as* *he* *had* *threatened* *,* *but* *nonetheless* *,* *once* *he* *had* *suddenly* *called* *it* *out* *,* *the* *cry* *seemed* *gradually* *to* *spread* *itself* *all* *round* *the* *room* *.*
*He* *had* *hardly* *pulled* *himself* *together* *when* *he* *jumped* *over* *to* *Miss* *Brstner* *and* *took* *her* *hand* *.*
*But* *when* *he* *reached* *the* *door* *he* *came* *to* *a* *halt* *as* *if* *he* *had* *n't* *expected* *to* *find* *a* *door* *there* *,* *Miss* *Brstner* *made* *use* *of* *that* *moment* *to* *get* *herself* *free* *,* *open* *the* *door* *,* *slip* *out* *into* *the* *hallway* *and* *gently* *say* *to* *K.* *from* *there* *,* *"* *Now* *,* *come* *along* *,* *please* *.*
*He* *would* *be* *given* *the* *number* *of* *the* *building* *where* *he* *was* *to* *present* *himself* *,* *which* *was* *in* *a* *street* *in* *a* *suburb* *well* *away* *from* *the* *city* *centre* *which* *K.* *had* *never* *been* *to* *before* *.*
*He* *was* *only* *speaking* *at* *the* *side* *of* *the* *telephone* *receiver* *while* *he* *waited* *for* *his* *connection* *,* *but* *in* *giving* *this* *invitation* *the* *deputy* *director* *was* *humbling* *himself* *.*
*K.* *forced* *himself* *to* *answer* *,* *but* *his* *thoughts* *were* *mainly* *about* *that* *Sunday* *,* *how* *it* *would* *be* *best* *to* *get* *there* *for* *nine* *o* *'clock* *in* *the* *morning* *as* *that* *was* *the* *time* *that* *courts* *always* *start* *work* *on* *weekdays* *.*
*All* *of* *them* *seemed* *to* *be* *looking* *at* *him* *,* *surprised* *at* *seeing* *their* *superior* *running* *;* *it* *was* *a* *kind* *of* *pride* *that* *made* *K.* *want* *to* *go* *on* *foot* *,* *this* *was* *his* *affair* *and* *the* *idea* *of* *any* *help* *from* *strangers* *,* *however* *slight* *,* *was* *repulsive* *to* *him* *,* *he* *also* *wanted* *to* *avoid* *asking* *for* *anyone* *'s* *help* *because* *that* *would* *initiate* *them* *into* *the* *affair* *even* *if* *only* *slightly* *.* *And* *after* *all* *,* *he* *had* *no* *wish* *at* *all* *to* *humiliate* *himself* *before* *the* *committee* *by* *being* *too* *punctual* *.*
*It* *was* *usually* *a* *woman* *who* *opened* *the* *door* *,* *heard* *the* *enquiry* *and* *turned* *to* *somebody* *in* *the* *room* *who* *would* *raise* *himself* *from* *the* *bed* *.*
*There* *were* *many* *who* *thought* *it* *must* *be* *very* *important* *for* *K.* *to* *find* *Lanz* *the* *joiner* *and* *thought* *long* *about* *it* *,* *naming* *a* *joiner* *who* *was* *not* *called* *Lanz* *or* *giving* *a* *name* *that* *had* *some* *vague* *similarity* *with* *Lanz* *,* *or* *they* *asked* *neighbours* *or* *accompanied* *K.* *to* *a* *door* *a* *long* *way* *away* *where* *they* *thought* *someone* *of* *that* *sort* *might* *live* *in* *the* *back* *part* *of* *the* *building* *or* *where* *someone* *would* *be* *who* *could* *advise* *K.* *better* *than* *they* *could* *themselves* *.*
*He* *passed* *through* *between* *two* *men* *who* *were* *talking* *beside* *the* *door* *-* *one* *of* *them* *held* *both* *hands* *far* *out* *in* *front* *of* *himself* *making* *the* *movements* *of* *counting* *out* *money* *,* *the* *other* *looked* *him* *closely* *in* *the* *eyes* *-* *and* *someone* *took* *him* *by* *the* *hand* *.* *It* *was* *a* *small* *,* *red-faced* *youth* *.*
*K.* *let* *himself* *be* *led* *by* *him* *,* *and* *it* *turned* *out* *that* *there* *was* *-* *surprisingly* *in* *a* *densely* *packed* *crowd* *of* *people* *moving* *to* *and* *fro* *-* *a* *narrow* *passage* *which* *may* *have* *been* *the* *division* *between* *two* *factions* *;* *this* *idea* *was* *reinforced* *by* *the* *fact* *that* *in* *the* *first* *few* *rows* *to* *the* *left* *and* *the* *right* *of* *him* *there* *was* *hardly* *any* *face* *looking* *in* *his* *direction* *,* *he* *saw* *nothing* *but* *the* *backs* *of* *people* *directing* *their* *speech* *and* *their* *movements* *only* *towards* *members* *of* *their* *own* *side* *.*
*Many* *of* *them* *had* *brought* *pillows* *that* *they* *had* *put* *between* *their* *heads* *and* *the* *ceiling* *so* *that* *they* *would* *not* *hurt* *themselves* *pressed* *against* *it* *.*
*K.* *had* *decided* *he* *would* *do* *more* *watching* *than* *talking* *,* *so* *he* *did* *not* *defend* *himself* *for* *supposedly* *having* *come* *late* *,* *and* *simply* *said* *,* *``* *Well* *maybe* *I* *have* *arrived* *late* *,* *I* *'m* *here* *now* *.* *''* *There* *followed* *loud* *applause* *,* *once* *more* *from* *the* *right* *hand* *side* *of* *the* *hall* *.*
*This* *reply* *was* *followed* *by* *laughter* *among* *the* *right* *hand* *faction* *down* *in* *the* *hall* *,* *it* *was* *so* *hearty* *that* *K.* *could* *n't* *stop* *himself* *joining* *in* *with* *it* *.*
*The* *people* *supported* *themselves* *with* *their* *hands* *on* *their* *knees* *and* *shook* *as* *if* *suffering* *a* *serious* *attack* *of* *coughing* *.*
*The* *judge* *had* *become* *quite* *cross* *but* *seemed* *to* *have* *no* *power* *over* *those* *below* *him* *in* *the* *hall* *,* *he* *tried* *to* *reduce* *what* *harm* *had* *been* *done* *in* *the* *gallery* *and* *jumped* *up* *threatening* *them* *,* *his* *eyebrows* *,* *until* *then* *hardly* *remarkable* *,* *pushed* *themselves* *up* *and* *became* *big* *,* *black* *and* *bushy* *over* *his* *eyes* *.*
*In* *fact* *he* *had* *done* *more* *than* *that* *and* *brought* *three* *junior* *employees* *from* *the* *bank* *where* *I* *work* *into* *the* *lady* *'s* *room* *;* *they* *had* *made* *themselves* *busy* *interfering* *with* *some* *photographs* *that* *belonged* *to* *the* *lady* *and* *causing* *a* *mess* *.*
*K.* *could* *only* *see* *that* *a* *man* *had* *pulled* *her* *into* *a* *corner* *by* *the* *door* *and* *was* *pressing* *himself* *against* *her* *.*
*``* *So* *,* *''* *called* *out* *K* *,* *throwing* *his* *arms* *in* *the* *air* *as* *if* *this* *sudden* *realisation* *needed* *more* *room* *,* *"* *all* *of* *you* *are* *working* *for* *this* *organisation* *,* *I* *see* *now* *that* *you* *are* *all* *the* *very* *bunch* *of* *cheats* *and* *liars* *I* *'ve* *just* *been* *speaking* *about* *,* *you* *'ve* *all* *pressed* *yourselves* *in* *here* *in* *order* *to* *listen* *in* *and* *snoop* *on* *me* *,* *you* *gave* *the* *impression* *of* *having* *formed* *into* *factions* *,* *one* *of* *you* *even* *applauded* *me* *to* *test* *me* *out* *,* *and* *you* *wanted* *to* *learn* *how* *to* *trap* *an* *innocent* *man* *!*
*Well* *,* *I* *hope* *you* *have* *n't* *come* *here* *for* *nothing* *,* *I* *hope* *you* *'ve* *either* *had* *some* *fun* *from* *someone* *who* *expected* *you* *to* *defend* *his* *innocence* *or* *else* *-* *let* *go* *of* *me* *or* *I* *'ll* *hit* *you* *,* *``* *shouted* *K.* *to* *a* *quivery* *old* *man* *who* *had* *pressed* *himself* *especially* *close* *to* *him* *-* *''* *or* *else* *that* *you* *'ve* *actually* *learned* *something* *.*
*``* *I* *merely* *wanted* *to* *draw* *your* *attention* *,* *''* *said* *the* *judge* *,* *``* *to* *something* *you* *seem* *not* *yet* *to* *be* *aware* *of* *:* *today* *,* *you* *have* *robbed* *yourself* *of* *the* *advantages* *that* *a* *hearing* *of* *this* *sort* *always* *gives* *to* *someone* *who* *is* *under* *arrest* *.* *''*
*"* *Could* *you* *really* *do* *that* *without* *placing* *yourself* *in* *danger* *?*
*So* *that* *'s* *what* *all* *this* *is* *about* *,* *thought* *K.* *,* *she* *'s* *offering* *herself* *to* *me* *,* *she* *'s* *as* *degenerate* *as* *everything* *else* *around* *here* *,* *she* *'s* *had* *enough* *of* *the* *court* *officials* *,* *which* *is* *understandable* *I* *suppose* *,* *and* *so* *she* *approaches* *any* *stranger* *and* *makes* *compliments* *about* *his* *eyes* *.*
*And* *what* *'s* *more* *,* *I* *expect* *they* *have* *already* *noticed* *themselves* *,* *or* *even* *if* *they* *have* *n't* *,* *this* *affair* *is* *really* *not* *so* *important* *to* *me* *as* *they* *think* *.*
*She* *suddenly* *interrupted* *herself* *and* *lay* *her* *hand* *on* *K.* *'s* *as* *if* *she* *wanted* *to* *calm* *him* *down* *,* *and* *whispered* *,* *``* *Be* *quiet* *,* *Berthold* *is* *watching* *us* *.* *''*
*In* *the* *doorway* *to* *the* *courtroom* *stood* *a* *young* *man* *,* *he* *was* *short* *,* *his* *legs* *were* *not* *quite* *straight* *,* *and* *he* *continually* *moved* *his* *finger* *round* *in* *a* *short* *,* *thin* *,* *red* *beard* *with* *which* *he* *hoped* *to* *make* *himself* *look* *dignified* *.*
*The* *student* *briefly* *looked* *away* *from* *the* *woman* *to* *glance* *at* *K.* *over* *his* *shoulder* *but* *did* *allow* *himself* *to* *be* *disturbed* *,* *in* *fact* *he* *even* *pressed* *himself* *close* *to* *the* *woman* *and* *put* *his* *arms* *around* *her* *.*
*What* *a* *position* *it* *was* *that* *K.* *found* *himself* *in* *,* *compared* *with* *the* *judge* *sitting* *up* *in* *the* *attic* *!* *K.* *,* *at* *the* *bank* *,* *had* *a* *big* *office* *with* *an* *ante-room* *,* *and* *had* *an* *enormous* *window* *through* *which* *he* *could* *look* *down* *at* *the* *activity* *in* *the* *square* *.*
*``* *Does* *your* *wife* *,* *then* *,* *not* *share* *some* *of* *the* *responsibility* *?* *''* *asked* *K.* *He* *had* *to* *force* *himself* *as* *he* *asked* *this* *question* *,* *as* *he* *,* *too* *,* *felt* *so* *jealous* *now* *.*
*It* *was* *her* *who* *attached* *herself* *to* *him* *.*
*In* *the* *meantime* *,* *the* *man* *whom* *K.* *had* *first* *approached* *had* *pulled* *himself* *together* *and* *even* *answered* *him* *with* *a* *smile* *.*
*K.* *did* *n't* *concern* *himself* *long* *with* *the* *guard* *or* *these* *people* *,* *especially* *as* *he* *saw* *a* *turning* *off* *the* *corridor* *,* *about* *half* *way* *along* *it* *on* *the* *right* *hand* *side* *,* *where* *there* *was* *no* *door* *to* *stop* *him* *going* *that* *way* *.*
*K.* *had* *still* *not* *looked* *round* *at* *anything* *at* *all* *in* *the* *room* *where* *he* *found* *himself* *,* *and* *it* *was* *only* *when* *one* *of* *the* *many* *wooden* *doors* *all* *around* *him* *opened* *that* *he* *noticed* *it* *.*
*The* *young* *woman* *smiled* *too* *,* *but* *lightly* *tapped* *the* *man* *'s* *arm* *with* *the* *tips* *of* *her* *fingers* *as* *if* *he* *had* *allowed* *himself* *too* *much* *fun* *with* *K.*
*K.* *just* *did* *not* *feel* *like* *contradicting* *him* *..* *The* *girl* *'s* *intention* *may* *have* *been* *good* *,* *perhaps* *she* *was* *under* *instructions* *to* *distract* *him* *or* *to* *give* *him* *the* *chance* *to* *collect* *himself* *,* *but* *the* *attempt* *had* *not* *worked* *.*
*He* *did* *not* *quite* *reject* *the* *idea* *that* *he* *should* *see* *a* *doctor* *the* *next* *time* *he* *had* *the* *chance* *,* *but* *whatever* *he* *did* *-* *and* *this* *was* *something* *on* *which* *he* *could* *advise* *himself* *-* *he* *wanted* *to* *spend* *all* *Sunday* *mornings* *in* *future* *better* *than* *he* *had* *spent* *this* *one* *.*
*"* *I* *kept* *asking* *myself* *why* *it* *was* *that* *Mr.* *K.* *took* *such* *an* *interest* *in* *Miss* *Brstner* *.*
*He* *contented* *himself* *with* *merely* *drinking* *his* *coffee* *and* *letting* *Mrs.* *Grubach* *feel* *that* *she* *was* *superfluous* *.*
*She* *would* *have* *come* *herself* *,* *but* *she* *'s* *feeling* *a* *little* *unwell* *today* *.*
*Moreover* *,* *it* *was* *only* *yesterday* *,* *and* *only* *very* *briefly* *,* *that* *she* *made* *it* *clear* *to* *me* *that* *such* *a* *meeting* *could* *be* *of* *no* *benefit* *for* *yourself* *either* *,* *she* *feels* *that* *it* *can* *only* *have* *been* *a* *matter* *of* *chance* *that* *such* *an* *idea* *came* *to* *you* *,* *and* *that* *even* *without* *any* *explanations* *from* *her* *,* *you* *will* *very* *soon* *come* *to* *realise* *yourself* *,* *if* *you* *have* *not* *done* *so* *already* *,* *the* *futility* *of* *your* *idea* *.*
*One* *evening* *,* *a* *few* *days* *later* *,* *K.* *was* *walking* *along* *one* *of* *the* *corridors* *that* *separated* *his* *office* *from* *the* *main* *stairway* *-* *he* *was* *nearly* *the* *last* *one* *to* *leave* *for* *home* *that* *evening* *,* *there* *remained* *only* *a* *couple* *of* *workers* *in* *the* *light* *of* *a* *single* *bulb* *in* *the* *dispatch* *department* *-* *when* *he* *heard* *a* *sigh* *from* *behind* *a* *door* *which* *he* *had* *himself* *never* *opened* *but* *which* *he* *had* *always* *thought* *just* *led* *into* *a* *junk* *room* *.* *He* *stood* *in* *amazement* *and* *listened* *again* *to* *establish* *whether* *he* *might* *not* *be* *mistaken* *.*
*``* *Do* *n't* *listen* *to* *him* *,* *''* *said* *Willem* *,* *interrupting* *himself* *only* *to* *quickly* *bring* *his* *hand* *to* *his* *mouth* *when* *it* *had* *received* *a* *stroke* *of* *the* *cane* *,* *"* *we* *'re* *only* *being* *punished* *because* *you* *made* *a* *complaint* *against* *us* *.*
*Both* *of* *us* *,* *me* *especially* *,* *we* *'d* *proved* *our* *worth* *as* *good* *police* *officers* *over* *a* *long* *period* *-* *you* *'ve* *got* *to* *admit* *yourself* *that* *as* *far* *as* *official* *work* *was* *concerned* *we* *did* *the* *job* *well* *-* *things* *looked* *good* *for* *us* *,* *we* *had* *prospects* *,* *it* *'s* *quite* *certain* *that* *we* *would* *'ve* *been* *made* *whip-men* *too* *,* *like* *this* *one* *,* *only* *he* *had* *the* *luck* *not* *to* *have* *anyone* *make* *a* *complaint* *about* *him* *,* *as* *you* *really* *do* *n't* *get* *many* *complaints* *like* *that* *.*
*``* *Do* *n't* *shout* *like* *that* *!* *,* *''* *called* *out* *K.* *,* *unable* *to* *prevent* *himself* *,* *and* *,* *as* *he* *looked* *anxiously* *in* *the* *direction* *from* *which* *the* *servitor* *would* *come* *,* *he* *gave* *Franz* *a* *shove* *,* *not* *hard* *,* *but* *hard* *enough* *for* *him* *to* *fall* *down* *unconscious* *,* *clawing* *at* *the* *ground* *with* *his* *hands* *by* *reflex* *;* *he* *still* *did* *not* *avoid* *being* *hit* *;* *the* *rod* *still* *found* *him* *on* *the* *floor* *;* *the* *tip* *of* *the* *rod* *swang* *regularly* *up* *and* *down* *while* *he* *rolled* *to* *and* *fro* *under* *its* *blows* *.*
*If* *that* *had* *been* *his* *intention* *then* *it* *would* *almost* *have* *been* *easier* *,* *K.* *would* *have* *taken* *his* *own* *clothes* *off* *and* *offered* *himself* *to* *the* *whip-man* *in* *the* *policemen* *'s* *place* *.*
*He* *was* *no* *longer* *in* *any* *position* *to* *help* *anyone* *,* *and* *the* *servitors* *would* *soon* *be* *back* *;* *he* *did* *,* *though* *,* *promise* *himself* *that* *he* *would* *raise* *the* *matter* *again* *with* *somebody* *and* *see* *that* *,* *as* *far* *as* *it* *was* *in* *his* *power* *,* *those* *who* *really* *were* *guilty* *,* *the* *high* *officials* *whom* *nobody* *had* *so* *far* *dared* *point* *out* *to* *him* *,* *received* *their* *due* *punishment* *.*
*``* *What* *'s* *this* *that* *I* *'ve* *been* *hearing* *,* *Josef* *?* *''* *cried* *K.* *'s* *uncle* *when* *they* *were* *alone* *,* *as* *he* *sat* *on* *the* *table* *shoving* *various* *papers* *under* *himself* *without* *looking* *at* *them* *to* *make* *himself* *more* *comfortable* *.*
*``* *Uncle* *Karl* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *,* *wrenching* *himself* *back* *from* *his* *daydreaming* *,* *``* *I* *really* *do* *n't* *know* *what* *it* *is* *you* *want* *of* *me* *.* *''*
*He* *would* *have* *liked* *to* *have* *been* *of* *some* *help* *to* *the* *chief* *clerk* *himself* *,* *as* *the* *chief* *clerk* *was* *a* *gentleman* *,* *good* *and* *honest* *,* *but* *he* *did* *not* *know* *what* *it* *was* *he* *could* *do* *and* *merely* *hoped* *there* *would* *be* *some* *influential* *gentlemen* *who* *would* *take* *his* *side* *.*
*``* *Josef* *,* *''* *called* *his* *uncle* *trying* *to* *disentangle* *himself* *from* *him* *so* *that* *he* *could* *stop* *walking* *,* *but* *K.* *did* *not* *let* *go* *,* *"* *you* *'ve* *completely* *changed* *,* *you* *used* *to* *be* *so* *astute* *,* *are* *you* *losing* *it* *now* *?*
*Josef* *,* *pull* *yourself* *together* *.*
*K.* *himself* *looked* *on* *calmly* *,* *he* *was* *not* *even* *disappointed* *at* *finding* *the* *lawyer* *unwell* *,* *he* *had* *been* *able* *to* *do* *nothing* *to* *oppose* *the* *enthusiasm* *his* *uncle* *had* *developed* *for* *the* *matter* *,* *he* *was* *glad* *that* *this* *enthusiasm* *had* *now* *been* *distracted* *without* *his* *having* *to* *do* *anything* *about* *it* *.*
*Fortunately* *,* *though* *,* *behind* *the* *girl* *,* *the* *invalid* *raised* *himself* *up* *,* *K.* *'s* *uncle* *made* *an* *ugly* *face* *as* *if* *swallowing* *something* *disgusting* *and* *then* *,* *somewhat* *calmer* *,* *said* *,* *"* *We* *have* *naturally* *not* *lost* *our* *senses* *,* *not* *yet* *;* *if* *what* *I* *am* *asking* *for* *were* *not* *possible* *I* *would* *not* *be* *asking* *for* *it* *.*
*And* *he* *twisted* *himself* *round* *as* *if* *wanting* *to* *go* *into* *no* *more* *negotiations* *but* *giving* *himself* *a* *little* *more* *time* *to* *think* *.*
*He* *interrupted* *himself* *,* *whispered* *,* *``* *I* *bet* *you* *she* *'s* *listening* *!* *''* *and* *sprang* *over* *to* *the* *door* *.*
*But* *in* *a* *tone* *that* *was* *much* *more* *committed* *he* *went* *on* *,* *"* *As* *far* *as* *your* *nephew* *'s* *affairs* *are* *concerned* *,* *this* *will* *be* *an* *extremely* *difficult* *undertaking* *and* *I* *'d* *count* *myself* *lucky* *if* *my* *strength* *lasted* *out* *long* *enough* *for* *it* *;* *I* *'m* *greatly* *afraid* *it* *wo* *n't* *do* *,* *but* *anyway* *I* *do* *n't* *want* *to* *leave* *anything* *untried* *;* *if* *I* *do* *n't* *last* *out* *you* *can* *always* *get* *somebody* *else* *.*
*To* *be* *honest* *,* *this* *matters* *interests* *me* *too* *much* *,* *and* *I* *ca* *n't* *bring* *myself* *to* *give* *up* *the* *chance* *of* *taking* *some* *part* *in* *it* *.*
*``* *But* *you* *work* *in* *the* *High* *Court* *,* *not* *that* *court* *in* *the* *attic* *,* *''* *he* *had* *wanted* *to* *say* *but* *could* *not* *bring* *himself* *to* *actually* *utter* *it* *.*
*``* *I* *'m* *afraid* *I* *'ll* *only* *be* *able* *to* *stay* *a* *few* *minutes* *more* *,* *''* *smiled* *the* *office* *director* *as* *he* *spread* *himself* *out* *in* *the* *armchair* *and* *looked* *at* *the* *clock* *.*
*He* *had* *hardly* *stepped* *into* *the* *hallway* *,* *finding* *his* *bearings* *in* *the* *darkness* *with* *his* *hand* *still* *firmly* *holding* *the* *door* *,* *when* *another* *small* *hand* *,* *much* *smaller* *than* *K.* *'s* *own* *,* *placed* *itself* *on* *his* *and* *gently* *shut* *the* *door* *.*
*But* *despite* *that* *,* *he* *had* *himself* *made* *to* *look* *bigger* *in* *the* *picture* *as* *he* *'s* *madly* *vain* *,* *just* *like* *everyone* *round* *here* *.*
*``* *Just* *an* *examining* *judge* *once* *again* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *in* *disappointment* *,* *"* *the* *senior* *officials* *keep* *themselves* *hidden* *.*
*``* *I* *'d* *be* *saying* *too* *much* *if* *I* *told* *you* *that* *,* *''* *answered* *Leni* *.* *"* *Please* *do* *n't* *ask* *for* *names* *,* *but* *do* *stop* *making* *these* *mistakes* *of* *yours* *,* *stop* *being* *so* *unyielding* *,* *there* *'s* *nothing* *you* *can* *do* *to* *defend* *yourself* *from* *this* *court* *,* *you* *have* *to* *confess* *.*
*``* *That* *'s* *alright* *,* *then* *,* *''* *she* *said* *,* *and* *made* *herself* *comfortable* *on* *his* *lap* *by* *smoothing* *out* *her* *skirt* *and* *adjusting* *her* *blouse* *.*
*Would* *she* *be* *capable* *of* *sacrificing* *herself* *for* *you* *,* *though* *?* *"*
*``* *No* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *,* *"* *she* *is* *n't* *gentle* *or* *friendly* *,* *and* *nor* *would* *she* *be* *capable* *of* *sacrificing* *herself* *for* *me* *.*
*Eventually* *we* *could* *n't* *keep* *up* *the* *pretence* *any* *longer* *,* *but* *these* *are* *polite* *and* *highly* *capable* *men* *,* *they* *did* *n't* *say* *anything* *about* *it* *so* *as* *to* *spare* *my* *feelings* *but* *in* *the* *end* *not* *even* *they* *could* *continue* *to* *force* *themselves* *and* *,* *as* *they* *could* *n't* *speak* *about* *the* *matter* *in* *hand* *,* *they* *became* *silent* *.*
*And* *,* *of* *course* *,* *there* *'s* *no* *way* *of* *defending* *yourself* *from* *this* *,* *something* *said* *in* *private* *is* *indeed* *in* *private* *and* *can* *not* *then* *be* *used* *in* *public* *,* *it* *'s* *not* *something* *that* *makes* *it* *easy* *for* *the* *defence* *to* *keep* *those* *gentlemen* *'s* *favour* *.*
*Bearing* *all* *this* *in* *mind* *,* *does* *it* *still* *surprise* *K.* *that* *the* *officials* *are* *irritated* *and* *often* *express* *themselves* *about* *the* *litigants* *in* *unflattering* *ways* *-* *which* *is* *an* *experience* *shared* *by* *everyone* *.* *All* *the* *officials* *are* *irritated* *,* *even* *when* *they* *appear* *calm* *.*
*One* *lawyer* *after* *another* *was* *sent* *out* *to* *run* *up* *the* *steps* *and* *let* *himself* *be* *thrown* *down* *again* *,* *offering* *what* *resistance* *he* *could* *as* *long* *as* *it* *was* *passive* *resistance* *,* *and* *his* *colleagues* *would* *catch* *him* *at* *the* *bottom* *of* *the* *steps* *.*
*Even* *if* *it* *were* *possible* *to* *improve* *any* *detail* *of* *it* *-* *which* *is* *anyway* *no* *more* *than* *superstitious* *nonsense* *-* *the* *best* *that* *they* *could* *achieve* *,* *although* *doing* *themselves* *incalculable* *harm* *in* *the* *process* *,* *is* *that* *they* *will* *have* *attracted* *the* *special* *attention* *of* *the* *officials* *for* *any* *case* *that* *comes* *up* *in* *the* *future* *,* *and* *the* *officials* *are* *always* *ready* *to* *seek* *revenge* *.*
*Client* *and* *trial* *are* *both* *simply* *taken* *away* *from* *the* *lawyer* *;* *and* *then* *even* *contact* *with* *the* *court* *officials* *wo* *n't* *help* *,* *however* *good* *they* *are* *,* *as* *they* *do* *n't* *know* *anything* *themselves* *.*
*It* *was* *much* *better* *not* *to* *give* *away* *any* *details* *before* *their* *time* *,* *as* *in* *that* *way* *K.* *could* *only* *be* *influenced* *unfavourably* *and* *his* *hopes* *might* *be* *raised* *or* *he* *might* *be* *made* *too* *anxious* *,* *better* *just* *to* *say* *that* *some* *individuals* *have* *spoken* *very* *favourably* *and* *shown* *themselves* *very* *willing* *to* *help* *,* *although* *others* *have* *spoken* *less* *favourably* *,* *but* *even* *they* *have* *not* *in* *any* *way* *refused* *to* *help* *.*
*Maybe* *everything* *the* *lawyer* *said* *was* *quite* *right* *,* *even* *though* *he* *obviously* *wanted* *to* *make* *himself* *as* *conspicuous* *as* *possible* *and* *probably* *had* *never* *even* *taken* *on* *a* *case* *as* *important* *as* *he* *said* *K.* *'s* *was* *.*
*On* *winter* *'s* *mornings* *such* *as* *this* *,* *when* *he* *was* *very* *tired* *and* *everything* *dragged* *itself* *lethargically* *through* *his* *head* *,* *this* *belief* *of* *his* *seemed* *irrefutable* *.*
*But* *now* *,* *his* *uncle* *had* *already* *dragged* *him* *to* *see* *the* *lawyer* *,* *he* *had* *to* *take* *account* *of* *his* *family* *;* *his* *job* *was* *no* *longer* *totally* *separate* *from* *the* *progress* *of* *the* *trial* *,* *he* *himself* *had* *carelessly* *-* *with* *a* *certain* *,* *inexplicable* *complacency* *-* *mentioned* *it* *to* *acquaintances* *and* *others* *had* *learned* *about* *it* *in* *ways* *he* *did* *not* *know* *,* *his* *relationship* *with* *Miss* *Brstner* *seemed* *to* *be* *in* *trouble* *because* *of* *it* *.* *In* *short* *,* *he* *no* *longer* *had* *any* *choice* *whether* *he* *would* *accept* *the* *trial* *or* *turn* *it* *down* *,* *he* *was* *in* *the* *middle* *of* *it* *and* *had* *to* *defend* *himself* *.*
*He* *had* *been* *capable* *of* *working* *himself* *up* *to* *his* *high* *position* *in* *the* *bank* *in* *a* *relatively* *short* *time* *and* *to* *retain* *it* *with* *respect* *from* *everyone* *,* *now* *he* *simply* *had* *to* *apply* *some* *of* *the* *talents* *that* *had* *made* *that* *possible* *for* *him* *to* *the* *trial* *,* *and* *there* *was* *no* *doubt* *that* *it* *had* *to* *turn* *out* *well* *.*
*The* *lawyer* *had* *told* *him* *,* *as* *he* *talked* *to* *him* *,* *that* *that* *was* *something* *unheard* *of* *and* *would* *probably* *do* *him* *a* *great* *deal* *of* *harm* *,* *but* *K.* *could* *not* *tolerate* *any* *impediment* *to* *his* *efforts* *where* *his* *trial* *was* *concerned* *,* *and* *these* *impediments* *were* *probably* *caused* *by* *the* *lawyer* *himself* *.*
*And* *K.* *had* *indeed* *,* *at* *first* *,* *been* *closely* *following* *what* *the* *manufacturer* *was* *saying* *,* *he* *too* *was* *aware* *of* *how* *important* *the* *deal* *was* *,* *but* *unfortunately* *it* *did* *not* *last* *,* *he* *soon* *stopped* *listening* *,* *nodded* *at* *each* *of* *the* *manufacturer* *'s* *louder* *exclamations* *for* *a* *short* *while* *,* *but* *eventually* *he* *stopped* *doing* *even* *that* *and* *did* *no* *more* *than* *stare* *at* *the* *bald* *head* *bent* *over* *the* *papers* *,* *asking* *himself* *when* *the* *manufacturer* *would* *finally* *realise* *that* *everything* *he* *was* *saying* *was* *useless* *.*
*Carefully* *and* *slowly* *turning* *his* *eyes* *upwards* *,* *he* *tried* *to* *learn* *what* *was* *taking* *place* *above* *him* *,* *took* *one* *of* *the* *papers* *from* *his* *desk* *without* *looking* *to* *see* *what* *it* *was* *,* *lay* *it* *on* *the* *flat* *of* *his* *hand* *and* *raised* *it* *slowly* *up* *as* *he* *rose* *up* *to* *the* *level* *of* *the* *two* *men* *himself* *.*
*K.* *still* *had* *enough* *control* *of* *himself* *to* *turn* *away* *from* *the* *deputy* *director* *and* *direct* *his* *friendly* *,* *albeit* *stiff* *,* *smile* *only* *at* *the* *manufacturer* *,* *he* *made* *no* *other* *retaliation* *,* *bent* *down* *slightly* *and* *supported* *himself* *with* *both* *hands* *on* *his* *desk* *like* *a* *clerk* *,* *and* *watched* *as* *the* *two* *gentlemen* *,* *still* *talking* *,* *took* *the* *papers* *from* *his* *desk* *and* *disappeared* *into* *the* *manager* *'s* *office* *.*
*Now* *,* *in* *contrast* *,* *if* *he* *was* *to* *conduct* *his* *defence* *himself* *,* *he* *would* *have* *to* *devote* *himself* *entirely* *to* *the* *court* *-* *for* *the* *time* *being* *,* *at* *least* *-* *success* *would* *mean* *,* *later* *on* *,* *his* *complete* *and* *conclusive* *liberation* *,* *but* *if* *he* *was* *to* *achieve* *this* *he* *would* *have* *to* *place* *himself* *,* *to* *start* *with* *,* *in* *far* *greater* *danger* *than* *he* *had* *been* *in* *so* *far* *.*
*Did* *a* *carefully* *worked* *out* *defence* *-* *and* *any* *other* *sort* *would* *have* *made* *no* *sense* *-* *did* *a* *carefully* *worked* *out* *defence* *not* *also* *mean* *he* *would* *need* *to* *shut* *himself* *off* *from* *everything* *else* *as* *much* *as* *he* *could* *?*
*It* *was* *true* *that* *he* *was* *well* *disposed* *towards* *K.* *,* *and* *as* *soon* *as* *he* *heard* *about* *the* *trial* *he* *would* *probably* *try* *to* *do* *everything* *he* *could* *to* *make* *it* *easier* *for* *him* *,* *but* *he* *would* *certainly* *not* *devote* *himself* *to* *it* *.* *K.* *at* *one* *time* *had* *provided* *the* *counter-balance* *to* *what* *the* *deputy* *director* *said* *but* *the* *director* *was* *now* *coming* *more* *and* *more* *under* *his* *influence* *,* *and* *the* *deputy* *director* *would* *also* *exploit* *the* *weakened* *condition* *of* *the* *director* *to* *strengthen* *his* *own* *power* *.*
*Maybe* *considerations* *of* *this* *sort* *weakened* *his* *power* *of* *resistance* *,* *but* *it* *was* *still* *necessary* *not* *to* *deceive* *oneself* *and* *to* *see* *everything* *as* *clearly* *as* *it* *could* *be* *seen* *at* *that* *moment* *.*
*You* *'re* *nearly* *a* *lawyer* *yourself* *.*
*And* *just* *now* *,* *just* *when* *he* *would* *have* *to* *act* *with* *all* *the* *strength* *he* *could* *muster* *,* *now* *a* *number* *of* *doubts* *of* *a* *sort* *he* *had* *never* *before* *known* *had* *presented* *themselves* *and* *affected* *his* *own* *vigilance* *!*
*Now* *,* *at* *least* *,* *he* *found* *himself* *quite* *unable* *to* *understand* *how* *he* *could* *have* *intended* *to* *write* *to* *Titorelli* *and* *invite* *him* *into* *the* *bank* *.*
*You* *'ve* *already* *seen* *yourselves* *how* *long* *I* *'ve* *been* *delayed* *.*
*``* *Paint* *your* *portrait* *?* *''* *she* *asked* *,* *opening* *her* *mouth* *too* *wide* *and* *lightly* *hitting* *K.* *with* *her* *hand* *as* *if* *he* *had* *said* *something* *extraordinarily* *surprising* *or* *clumsy* *,* *with* *both* *hands* *she* *lifted* *her* *skirt* *,* *which* *was* *already* *very* *short* *,* *and* *,* *as* *fast* *as* *she* *could* *,* *she* *ran* *off* *after* *the* *other* *girls* *whose* *indistinct* *shouts* *lost* *themselves* *in* *the* *heights* *.*
*They* *stood* *on* *both* *sides* *of* *the* *stairs* *,* *pressing* *themselves* *against* *the* *wall* *so* *that* *K.* *could* *get* *through* *between* *them* *,* *and* *smoothed* *their* *aprons* *down* *with* *their* *hands* *.*
*Then* *he* *shut* *the* *door* *,* *bowed* *once* *more* *to* *K.* *,* *offered* *him* *his* *hand* *and* *introduced* *himself* *,* *saying* *,* *``* *Titorelli* *,* *painter* *.* *''* *K.* *pointed* *to* *the* *door* *,* *behind* *which* *the* *girls* *were* *whispering* *,* *and* *said* *,* *``* *You* *seem* *to* *be* *very* *popular* *in* *this* *building* *.* *''*
*This* *impression* *was* *augmented* *by* *the* *painter* *'s* *asking* *,* *``* *Were* *you* *wanting* *to* *buy* *some* *pictures* *or* *did* *you* *want* *to* *have* *yourself* *painted* *?* *''*
*At* *first* *K.* *was* *about* *to* *say* *,* *``* *He* *certainly* *is* *a* *judge* *,* *''* *but* *he* *held* *himself* *back* *for* *the* *time* *being* *and* *went* *closer* *to* *the* *picture* *as* *if* *he* *wanted* *to* *study* *it* *in* *detail* *.*
*"* *And* *he* *has* *himself* *painted* *in* *such* *a* *grand* *pose* *?*
*``* *Yeah* *,* *gentlemen* *like* *this* *are* *very* *vain* *,* *''* *said* *the* *painter* *.* *"* *But* *they* *have* *permission* *from* *higher* *up* *to* *get* *themselves* *painted* *like* *this* *.*
*K.* *found* *the* *painter* *'s* *work* *more* *engrossing* *than* *he* *had* *wanted* *;* *but* *finally* *he* *reproached* *himself* *for* *staying* *so* *long* *without* *having* *done* *anything* *relevant* *to* *his* *own* *affair* *.*
*K.* *forewent* *the* *opportunity* *to* *excuse* *himself* *in* *some* *way* *as* *he* *did* *not* *wish* *to* *distract* *the* *painter* *from* *what* *he* *was* *saying* *,* *or* *else* *perhaps* *he* *did* *n't* *want* *him* *to* *get* *too* *far* *above* *himself* *and* *in* *this* *way* *make* *himself* *to* *some* *extent* *unattainable* *,* *so* *he* *asked* *,* *``* *Is* *that* *a* *publicly* *acknowledged* *position* *?* *''*
*The* *painter* *even* *seemed* *to* *misunderstand* *why* *K.* *remained* *at* *the* *edge* *of* *the* *bed* *and* *urged* *K.* *to* *make* *himself* *comfortable* *,* *and* *as* *he* *hesitated* *he* *went* *over* *to* *the* *bed* *himself* *and* *pressed* *K.* *deep* *down* *into* *the* *bedclothes* *and* *pillows* *.*
*If* *I* *painted* *all* *the* *judges* *next* *to* *each* *other* *here* *on* *canvas* *,* *and* *you* *were* *trying* *to* *defend* *yourself* *in* *front* *of* *it* *,* *you* *'d* *have* *more* *success* *with* *them* *than* *you* *'d* *ever* *have* *with* *the* *real* *court* *.* *"*
*``* *How* *do* *you* *intend* *to* *do* *that* *?* *''* *asked* *K.* *``* *You* *did* *say* *yourself* *not* *long* *ago* *that* *it* *'s* *quite* *impossible* *to* *go* *to* *the* *court* *with* *reasons* *and* *proofs* *.* *''*
*``* *Only* *impossible* *for* *reasons* *and* *proofs* *you* *take* *to* *the* *court* *yourself* *''* *said* *the* *painter* *,* *raising* *his* *forefinger* *as* *if* *K.* *had* *failed* *to* *notice* *a* *fine* *distinction* *.*
*The* *painter* *did* *not* *let* *himself* *be* *distracted* *,* *but* *said* *,* *``* *In* *your* *case* *,* *for* *instance* *,* *as* *you* *'re* *totally* *innocent* *,* *this* *is* *what* *I* *'ll* *do* *.* *''*
*But* *despite* *these* *doubts* *K.* *forced* *himself* *not* *to* *interrupt* *the* *painter* *.*
*At* *first* *,* *K.* *was* *astonished* *at* *this* *orderly* *explanation* *,* *but* *then* *,* *just* *as* *quietly* *as* *the* *painter* *,* *he* *said* *,* *``* *I* *think* *you* *'re* *contradicting* *yourself* *.* *''*
*This* *smile* *made* *K.* *feel* *as* *if* *he* *were* *examining* *not* *the* *words* *of* *the* *painter* *but* *seeking* *out* *inconsistencies* *in* *the* *procedures* *of* *the* *court* *itself* *.*
*When* *I* *was* *a* *boy* *I* *used* *to* *listen* *closely* *to* *my* *father* *when* *he* *told* *us* *about* *court* *cases* *at* *home* *,* *and* *the* *judges* *that* *came* *to* *his* *studio* *talked* *about* *the* *court* *,* *in* *our* *circles* *nobody* *talks* *about* *anything* *else* *;* *I* *hardly* *ever* *got* *the* *chance* *to* *go* *to* *court* *myself* *but* *always* *made* *use* *of* *it* *when* *I* *could* *,* *I* *'ve* *listened* *to* *countless* *trials* *at* *important* *stages* *in* *their* *development* *,* *I* *'ve* *followed* *them* *closely* *as* *far* *as* *they* *could* *be* *followed* *,* *and* *I* *have* *to* *say* *that* *I* *'ve* *never* *seen* *a* *single* *acquittal* *.* *"*
*He* *had* *prepared* *himself* *even* *for* *the* *fog* *that* *he* *would* *breathe* *in* *through* *his* *open* *mouth* *.*
*The* *painter* *had* *leant* *back* *and* *spread* *himself* *out* *in* *his* *chair* *,* *his* *nightshirt* *was* *wide* *open* *,* *he* *had* *pushed* *his* *hand* *inside* *and* *was* *stroking* *his* *breast* *and* *his* *sides* *.*
*K.* *placed* *his* *hand* *on* *his* *winter* *overcoat* *but* *could* *not* *bring* *himself* *to* *put* *it* *on* *.*
*K.* *expressed* *himself* *in* *this* *curt* *way* *without* *any* *thought* *,* *so* *he* *was* *glad* *when* *the* *painter* *did* *not* *take* *this* *amiss* *and* *picked* *up* *a* *second* *painting* *from* *the* *floor* *.*
*They* *had* *clearly* *seen* *that* *the* *second* *door* *of* *the* *studio* *had* *been* *opened* *and* *had* *gone* *around* *to* *impose* *themselves* *on* *him* *from* *this* *side* *.*
*Someone* *unlocked* *the* *door* *,* *but* *kept* *himself* *pressed* *against* *it* *as* *he* *called* *back* *inside* *,* *``* *It* *'s* *him* *!* *,* *''* *and* *only* *then* *did* *he* *open* *the* *door* *properly* *.*
*``* *Block* *.* *I* *'m* *a* *businessman* *,* *''* *said* *the* *small* *man* *,* *twisting* *himself* *round* *as* *he* *thus* *introduced* *himself* *,* *although* *K.* *did* *not* *allow* *him* *to* *stop* *moving* *.*
*He* *felt* *himself* *as* *much* *at* *liberty* *as* *is* *normally* *only* *felt* *in* *foreign* *parts* *when* *speaking* *with* *people* *of* *lower* *standing* *,* *keeping* *everything* *about* *himself* *to* *himself* *,* *speaking* *only* *casually* *about* *the* *interests* *of* *the* *other* *,* *able* *to* *raise* *him* *to* *a* *level* *above* *one* *'s* *own* *,* *but* *also* *able* *,* *at* *will* *,* *to* *let* *him* *drop* *again* *.*
*``* *So* *you* *'re* *also* *working* *at* *the* *court* *yourself* *?* *''* *asked* *K.* *``* *That* *'s* *just* *what* *I* *want* *to* *learn* *more* *about* *.* *''*
*You* *know* *yourself* *what* *the* *air* *is* *like* *in* *those* *offices* *.* *"*
*``* *I* *expect* *I* *'ll* *have* *to* *go* *there* *quite* *often* *myself* *now* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *,* *"* *although* *I* *can* *hardly* *expect* *to* *be* *shown* *the* *same* *respect* *as* *I* *was* *then* *.*
*I* *repeat* *that* *all* *this* *is* *just* *a* *ridiculous* *superstition* *,* *and* *in* *most* *cases* *it* *'s* *completely* *disproved* *by* *the* *facts* *,* *but* *when* *you* *live* *in* *that* *society* *it* *'s* *hard* *to* *hold* *yourself* *back* *from* *beliefs* *like* *that* *.*
*He* *told* *us* *all* *later* *he* *thought* *he* *could* *see* *something* *in* *your* *lips* *that* *meant* *he* *'d* *be* *convicted* *himself* *.* *"*
*``* *On* *my* *lips* *?* *''* *asked* *K.* *,* *pulling* *out* *a* *pocket* *mirror* *and* *examining* *himself* *.* *"* *I* *can* *see* *nothing* *special* *about* *my* *lips* *.*
*``* *Do* *you* *then* *have* *that* *much* *contact* *with* *each* *other* *,* *exchanging* *each* *other* *'s* *opinions* *?* *''* *said* *K.* *``* *I* *'ve* *kept* *myself* *completely* *apart* *so* *far* *.* *''*
*``* *Waiting* *is* *not* *pointless* *,* *''* *said* *the* *businessman* *,* *"* *it* *'s* *only* *pointless* *if* *you* *try* *and* *interfere* *yourself* *.*
*Most* *of* *all* *,* *there* *was* *lots* *of* *Latin* *,* *which* *I* *ca* *n't* *understand* *,* *then* *pages* *and* *pages* *of* *general* *appeals* *to* *the* *court* *,* *then* *lots* *of* *flattery* *for* *particular* *officials* *,* *they* *were* *n't* *named* *,* *these* *officials* *,* *but* *anyone* *familiar* *with* *the* *court* *must* *have* *been* *able* *to* *guess* *who* *they* *were* *,* *then* *there* *was* *self-praise* *by* *the* *lawyer* *where* *he* *humiliated* *himself* *to* *the* *court* *in* *a* *way* *that* *was* *downright* *dog-like* *,* *and* *then* *endless* *investigations* *of* *cases* *from* *the* *past* *which* *were* *supposed* *to* *be* *similar* *to* *mine* *.*
*It* *'s* *best* *if* *you* *do* *n't* *let* *yourself* *be* *misled* *in* *that* *way* *.*
*She* *attaches* *herself* *to* *each* *of* *them* *,* *loves* *each* *of* *them* *,* *even* *seems* *to* *be* *loved* *by* *each* *of* *them* *;* *then* *she* *sometimes* *entertains* *me* *by* *telling* *me* *about* *them* *when* *I* *allow* *her* *to* *.*
*The* *lawyer* *must* *have* *noticed* *that* *K.* *was* *offering* *him* *more* *resistance* *than* *before* *,* *as* *he* *became* *silent* *,* *giving* *K.* *the* *chance* *to* *speak* *himself* *,* *and* *then* *,* *as* *K.* *also* *remained* *silent* *,* *he* *asked* *,* *``* *Did* *you* *have* *a* *particular* *reason* *for* *coming* *to* *see* *me* *today* *?* *''*
*``* *Do* *I* *understand* *you* *rightly* *?* *''* *asked* *the* *lawyer* *as* *he* *half* *raised* *himself* *in* *his* *bed* *and* *supported* *himself* *with* *one* *hand* *on* *the* *pillow* *.*
*It* *was* *very* *unwelcome* *for* *K.* *to* *hear* *the* *old* *man* *speak* *in* *this* *touching* *way* *,* *as* *it* *forced* *him* *to* *explain* *himself* *more* *fully* *,* *which* *he* *would* *rather* *have* *avoided* *,* *and* *he* *was* *aware* *that* *it* *also* *confused* *him* *even* *though* *it* *could* *never* *make* *him* *reverse* *his* *decision* *.*
*I* *would* *naturally* *never* *attempt* *,* *considering* *that* *you* *are* *so* *much* *older* *and* *more* *experienced* *than* *I* *am* *,* *to* *convince* *you* *of* *my* *opinion* *;* *if* *I* *have* *ever* *unintentionally* *done* *so* *then* *I* *beg* *your* *forgiveness* *,* *but* *,* *as* *you* *have* *just* *said* *yourself* *,* *the* *circumstances* *are* *important* *enough* *and* *it* *is* *my* *belief* *that* *my* *trial* *needs* *to* *be* *approached* *with* *much* *more* *vigour* *than* *has* *so* *far* *been* *the* *case* *.* *"*
*How* *the* *lawyer* *was* *humiliating* *himself* *to* *K.* *!*
*Was* *it* *something* *personal* *for* *his* *uncle* *'s* *sake* *,* *or* *did* *he* *really* *see* *K.* *'s* *case* *as* *one* *that* *was* *exceptional* *and* *hoped* *to* *be* *able* *to* *distinguish* *himself* *with* *it* *,* *either* *for* *K.* *'s* *sake* *or* *-* *and* *this* *possibility* *could* *never* *be* *excluded* *-* *for* *his* *friends* *at* *the* *court* *?*
*But* *despite* *that* *I* *do* *n't* *regret* *my* *decision* *,* *quite* *possibly* *I* *should* *have* *turned* *more* *cases* *away* *than* *I* *did* *,* *but* *it* *did* *turn* *out* *to* *be* *entirely* *necessary* *for* *me* *to* *devote* *myself* *fully* *to* *the* *cases* *I* *did* *take* *on* *,* *and* *the* *successful* *results* *showed* *that* *it* *was* *worth* *it* *.*
*K.* *could* *have* *encouraged* *to* *enter* *,* *but* *he* *had* *decided* *to* *make* *a* *final* *break* *not* *only* *with* *the* *lawyer* *but* *with* *everything* *in* *his* *home* *,* *so* *he* *kept* *himself* *motionless* *.*
*``* *I* *will* *,* *''* *said* *Block* *,* *as* *if* *speaking* *to* *himself* *to* *give* *himself* *courage* *,* *and* *with* *a* *quick* *glance* *to* *the* *side* *he* *kneeled* *down* *close* *beside* *the* *bed* *.*
*In* *the* *silence* *while* *he* *did* *so* *,* *Leni* *,* *as* *she* *freed* *herself* *from* *K.* *'s* *hands* *,* *said* *,* *"* *You* *'re* *hurting* *me* *.*
*What* *do* *you* *think* *he* *'d* *say* *if* *he* *learned* *his* *trial* *still* *has* *n't* *begun* *,* *if* *you* *told* *him* *they* *have* *n't* *even* *rung* *the* *bell* *to* *announce* *the* *start* *of* *proceedings* *?* *'* *Alright* *Block* *,* *alright* *,* *"* *said* *the* *lawyer* *,* *as* *at* *these* *words* *Block* *had* *begun* *to* *raise* *himself* *on* *his* *trembling* *knees* *and* *clearly* *wanted* *to* *plead* *for* *some* *explanation* *.*
*When* *he* *spoke* *very* *calmly* *he* *understood* *almost* *everything* *,* *but* *that* *was* *very* *infrequent* *,* *mostly* *the* *words* *gushed* *from* *his* *mouth* *and* *he* *seemed* *to* *be* *enjoying* *himself* *so* *much* *his* *head* *shook* *.*
*K.* *began* *to* *anticipate* *many* *difficulties* *,* *he* *gave* *up* *trying* *to* *understand* *what* *the* *Italian* *said* *-* *with* *the* *director* *there* *,* *who* *could* *understand* *him* *so* *easily* *,* *it* *would* *have* *been* *pointless* *effort* *-* *and* *for* *the* *time* *being* *did* *no* *more* *than* *scowl* *at* *the* *Italian* *as* *he* *relaxed* *sitting* *deep* *but* *comfortable* *in* *the* *armchair* *,* *as* *he* *frequently* *pulled* *at* *his* *short* *,* *sharply* *tailored* *jacket* *and* *at* *one* *time* *lifted* *his* *arms* *in* *the* *air* *and* *moved* *his* *hands* *freely* *to* *try* *and* *depict* *something* *that* *K.* *could* *not* *grasp* *,* *even* *though* *he* *was* *leaning* *forward* *and* *did* *not* *let* *the* *hands* *out* *of* *his* *sight* *.* *K.* *had* *nothing* *to* *occupy* *himself* *but* *mechanically* *watch* *the* *exchange* *between* *the* *two* *men* *and* *his* *tiredness* *finally* *made* *itself* *felt* *,* *to* *his* *alarm* *,* *although* *fortunately* *in* *good* *time* *,* *he* *once* *caught* *himself* *nearly* *getting* *up* *,* *turning* *round* *and* *leaving* *.*
*Eventually* *the* *Italian* *looked* *at* *the* *clock* *and* *jumped* *up* *.* *After* *taking* *his* *leave* *from* *the* *director* *he* *turned* *to* *K.* *,* *pressing* *himself* *so* *close* *to* *him* *that* *K.* *had* *to* *push* *his* *chair* *back* *just* *so* *that* *he* *could* *move* *.*
*As* *he* *was* *tired* *he* *wanted* *to* *sit* *down* *,* *he* *went* *back* *inside* *the* *cathedral* *,* *he* *found* *something* *like* *a* *small* *carpet* *on* *one* *of* *the* *steps* *,* *he* *moved* *it* *with* *his* *foot* *to* *a* *nearby* *pew* *,* *wrapped* *himself* *up* *tighter* *in* *his* *coat* *,* *put* *the* *collar* *up* *and* *sat* *down* *.*
*It* *was* *discourteous* *of* *the* *Italian* *not* *to* *come* *but* *it* *was* *also* *sensible* *of* *him* *,* *there* *would* *have* *been* *nothing* *to* *see* *,* *they* *would* *have* *had* *to* *content* *themselves* *with* *seeking* *out* *a* *few* *pictures* *with* *K.* *'s* *electric* *pocket* *torch* *and* *looking* *at* *them* *one* *small* *part* *at* *a* *time* *.*
*But* *under* *the* *pulpit* *-* *K.* *grinned* *in* *astonishment* *-* *there* *really* *was* *a* *priest* *standing* *with* *his* *hand* *on* *the* *handrail* *ready* *to* *climb* *the* *steps* *and* *looking* *at* *K.* *Then* *he* *nodded* *very* *slightly* *,* *so* *that* *K.* *crossed* *himself* *and* *genuflected* *as* *he* *should* *have* *done* *earlier* *.*
*``* *Yes* *,* *''* *said* *K.* *,* *he* *considered* *how* *freely* *he* *had* *always* *given* *his* *name* *in* *the* *past* *,* *for* *some* *time* *now* *it* *had* *been* *a* *burden* *to* *him* *,* *now* *there* *were* *people* *who* *knew* *his* *name* *whom* *he* *had* *never* *seen* *before* *,* *it* *had* *been* *so* *nice* *first* *to* *introduce* *yourself* *and* *only* *then* *for* *people* *to* *know* *who* *you* *were* *.*
*If* *the* *priest* *knew* *of* *such* *a* *possibility* *he* *might* *,* *if* *K.* *asked* *him* *,* *let* *him* *know* *about* *it* *,* *even* *though* *he* *was* *part* *of* *the* *court* *himself* *and* *even* *though* *,* *when* *K.* *had* *criticised* *the* *court* *,* *he* *had* *held* *down* *his* *gentle* *nature* *and* *actually* *shouted* *at* *K.*
*``* *Do* *n't* *fool* *yourself* *,* *''* *said* *the* *priest* *.*
*``* *You* *fool* *yourself* *in* *the* *court* *,* *''* *said* *the* *priest* *,* *"* *it* *talks* *about* *this* *self-deceit* *in* *the* *opening* *paragraphs* *to* *the* *law* *.* *In* *front* *of* *the* *law* *there* *is* *a* *doorkeeper* *.*
*They* *see* *his* *ideas* *of* *what* *'s* *inside* *the* *law* *as* *rather* *childish* *,* *and* *suppose* *he* *'s* *afraid* *himself* *of* *what* *he* *wants* *to* *make* *the* *man* *frightened* *of* *.*
*There* *would* *be* *nothing* *heroic* *about* *it* *if* *he* *resisted* *,* *if* *he* *now* *caused* *trouble* *for* *these* *gentlemen* *,* *if* *in* *defending* *himself* *he* *sought* *to* *enjoy* *his* *last* *glimmer* *of* *life* *.*
*He* *started* *walking* *,* *which* *pleased* *the* *gentlemen* *and* *some* *of* *their* *pleasure* *conveyed* *itself* *to* *him* *.*
*The* *moonlight* *glittered* *and* *quivered* *in* *the* *water* *,* *which* *divided* *itself* *around* *a* *small* *island* *covered* *in* *a* *densely-piled* *mass* *of* *foliage* *and* *trees* *and* *bushes* *.*
*Beneath* *them* *,* *now* *invisible* *,* *there* *were* *gravel* *paths* *with* *comfortable* *benches* *where* *K.* *had* *stretched* *himself* *out* *on* *many* *summer* *'s* *days* *.*
*In* *this* *way* *they* *quickly* *left* *the* *built* *up* *area* *and* *found* *themselves* *in* *the* *fields* *which* *,* *in* *this* *part* *of* *town* *,* *began* *almost* *without* *any* *transition* *zone* *.*
*One* *morning* *,* *when* *Gregor* *Samsa* *woke* *from* *troubled* *dreams* *,* *he* *found* *himself* *transformed* *in* *his* *bed* *into* *a* *horrible* *vermin* *.*
*However* *hard* *he* *threw* *himself* *onto* *his* *right* *,* *he* *always* *rolled* *back* *to* *where* *he* *was* *.*
*He* *felt* *a* *slight* *itch* *up* *on* *his* *belly* *;* *pushed* *himself* *slowly* *up* *on* *his* *back* *towards* *the* *headboard* *so* *that* *he* *could* *lift* *his* *head* *better* *;* *found* *where* *the* *itch* *was* *,* *and* *saw* *that* *it* *was* *covered* *with* *lots* *of* *little* *white* *spots* *which* *he* *did* *n't* *know* *what* *to* *make* *of* *;* *and* *when* *he* *tried* *to* *feel* *the* *place* *with* *one* *of* *his* *legs* *he* *drew* *it* *quickly* *back* *because* *as* *soon* *as* *he* *touched* *it* *he* *was* *overcome* *by* *a* *cold* *shudder* *.*
*Gregor* *had* *wanted* *to* *give* *a* *full* *answer* *and* *explain* *everything* *,* *but* *in* *the* *circumstances* *contented* *himself* *with* *saying* *:* *``* *Yes* *,* *mother* *,* *yes* *,* *thank-you* *,* *I* *'m* *getting* *up* *now* *.* *''*
*He* *remembered* *that* *he* *had* *often* *felt* *a* *slight* *pain* *in* *bed* *,* *perhaps* *caused* *by* *lying* *awkwardly* *,* *but* *that* *had* *always* *turned* *out* *to* *be* *pure* *imagination* *and* *he* *wondered* *how* *his* *imaginings* *would* *slowly* *resolve* *themselves* *today* *.*
*It* *was* *a* *simple* *matter* *to* *throw* *off* *the* *covers* *;* *he* *only* *had* *to* *blow* *himself* *up* *a* *little* *and* *they* *fell* *off* *by* *themselves* *.*
*He* *would* *have* *used* *his* *arms* *and* *his* *hands* *to* *push* *himself* *up* *;* *but* *instead* *of* *them* *he* *only* *had* *all* *those* *little* *legs* *continuously* *moving* *in* *different* *directions* *,* *and* *which* *he* *was* *moreover* *unable* *to* *control* *.*
*If* *he* *wanted* *to* *bend* *one* *of* *them* *,* *then* *that* *was* *the* *first* *one* *that* *would* *stretch* *itself* *out* *;* *and* *if* *he* *finally* *managed* *to* *do* *what* *he* *wanted* *with* *that* *leg* *,* *all* *the* *others* *seemed* *to* *be* *set* *free* *and* *would* *move* *about* *painfully* *.*
*The* *first* *thing* *he* *wanted* *to* *do* *was* *get* *the* *lower* *part* *of* *his* *body* *out* *of* *the* *bed* *,* *but* *he* *had* *never* *seen* *this* *lower* *part* *,* *and* *could* *not* *imagine* *what* *it* *looked* *like* *;* *it* *turned* *out* *to* *be* *too* *hard* *to* *move* *;* *it* *went* *so* *slowly* *;* *and* *finally* *,* *almost* *in* *a* *frenzy* *,* *when* *he* *carelessly* *shoved* *himself* *forwards* *with* *all* *the* *force* *he* *could* *gather* *,* *he* *chose* *the* *wrong* *direction* *,* *hit* *hard* *against* *the* *lower* *bedpost* *,* *and* *learned* *from* *the* *burning* *pain* *he* *felt* *that* *the* *lower* *part* *of* *his* *body* *might* *well* *,* *at* *present* *,* *be* *the* *most* *sensitive* *.*
*But* *when* *he* *had* *at* *last* *got* *his* *head* *out* *of* *the* *bed* *and* *into* *the* *fresh* *air* *it* *occurred* *to* *him* *that* *if* *he* *let* *himself* *fall* *it* *would* *be* *a* *miracle* *if* *his* *head* *were* *not* *injured* *,* *so* *he* *became* *afraid* *to* *carry* *on* *pushing* *himself* *forward* *the* *same* *way* *.*
*And* *he* *could* *not* *knock* *himself* *out* *now* *at* *any* *price* *;* *better* *to* *stay* *in* *bed* *than* *lose* *consciousness* *.*
*It* *took* *just* *as* *much* *effort* *to* *get* *back* *to* *where* *he* *had* *been* *earlier* *,* *but* *when* *he* *lay* *there* *sighing* *,* *and* *was* *once* *more* *watching* *his* *legs* *as* *they* *struggled* *against* *each* *other* *even* *harder* *than* *before* *,* *if* *that* *was* *possible* *,* *he* *could* *think* *of* *no* *way* *of* *bringing* *peace* *and* *order* *to* *this* *chaos* *.* *He* *told* *himself* *once* *more* *that* *it* *was* *not* *possible* *for* *him* *to* *stay* *in* *bed* *and* *that* *the* *most* *sensible* *thing* *to* *do* *would* *be* *to* *get* *free* *of* *it* *in* *whatever* *way* *he* *could* *at* *whatever* *sacrifice* *.*
*At* *the* *same* *time* *,* *though* *,* *he* *did* *not* *forget* *to* *remind* *himself* *that* *calm* *consideration* *was* *much* *better* *than* *rushing* *to* *desperate* *conclusions* *.*
*And* *so* *he* *set* *himself* *to* *the* *task* *of* *swinging* *the* *entire* *length* *of* *his* *body* *out* *of* *the* *bed* *all* *at* *the* *same* *time* *.*
*Was* *it* *really* *not* *enough* *to* *let* *one* *of* *the* *trainees* *make* *enquiries* *-* *assuming* *enquiries* *were* *even* *necessary* *-* *did* *the* *chief* *clerk* *have* *to* *come* *himself* *,* *and* *did* *they* *have* *to* *show* *the* *whole* *,* *innocent* *family* *that* *this* *was* *so* *suspicious* *that* *only* *the* *chief* *clerk* *could* *be* *trusted* *to* *have* *the* *wisdom* *to* *investigate* *it* *?*
*And* *more* *because* *these* *thoughts* *had* *made* *him* *upset* *than* *through* *any* *proper* *decision* *,* *he* *swang* *himself* *with* *all* *his* *force* *out* *of* *the* *bed* *.*
*You* *barricade* *yourself* *in* *your* *room* *,* *give* *us* *no* *more* *than* *yes* *or* *no* *for* *an* *answer* *,* *you* *are* *causing* *serious* *and* *unnecessary* *concern* *to* *your* *parents* *and* *you* *fail* *-* *and* *I* *mention* *this* *just* *by* *the* *way* *-* *you* *fail* *to* *carry* *out* *your* *business* *duties* *in* *a* *way* *that* *is* *quite* *unheard* *of* *.*
*And* *while* *Gregor* *gushed* *out* *these* *words* *,* *hardly* *knowing* *what* *he* *was* *saying* *,* *he* *made* *his* *way* *over* *to* *the* *chest* *of* *drawers* *-* *this* *was* *easily* *done* *,* *probably* *because* *of* *the* *practise* *he* *had* *already* *had* *in* *bed* *-* *where* *he* *now* *tried* *to* *get* *himself* *upright* *.*
*The* *first* *few* *times* *he* *tried* *to* *climb* *up* *on* *the* *smooth* *chest* *of* *drawers* *he* *just* *slid* *down* *again* *,* *but* *he* *finally* *gave* *himself* *one* *last* *swing* *and* *stood* *there* *upright* *;* *the* *lower* *part* *of* *his* *body* *was* *in* *serious* *pain* *but* *he* *no* *longer* *gave* *any* *attention* *to* *it* *.*
*Now* *he* *let* *himself* *fall* *against* *the* *back* *of* *a* *nearby* *chair* *and* *held* *tightly* *to* *the* *edges* *of* *it* *with* *his* *little* *legs* *.*
*Gregor* *slowly* *pushed* *his* *way* *over* *to* *the* *door* *with* *the* *chair* *.* *Once* *there* *he* *let* *go* *of* *it* *and* *threw* *himself* *onto* *the* *door* *,* *holding* *himself* *upright* *against* *it* *using* *the* *adhesive* *on* *the* *tips* *of* *his* *legs* *.*
*He* *rested* *there* *a* *little* *while* *to* *recover* *from* *the* *effort* *involved* *and* *then* *set* *himself* *to* *the* *task* *of* *turning* *the* *key* *in* *the* *lock* *with* *his* *mouth* *.*
*And* *with* *the* *idea* *that* *they* *were* *all* *excitedly* *following* *his* *efforts* *,* *he* *bit* *on* *the* *key* *with* *all* *his* *strength* *,* *paying* *no* *attention* *to* *the* *pain* *he* *was* *causing* *himself* *.*
*As* *the* *key* *turned* *round* *he* *turned* *around* *the* *lock* *with* *it* *,* *only* *holding* *himself* *upright* *with* *his* *mouth* *,* *and* *hung* *onto* *the* *key* *or* *pushed* *it* *down* *again* *with* *the* *whole* *weight* *of* *his* *body* *as* *needed* *.*
*He* *had* *first* *to* *slowly* *turn* *himself* *around* *one* *of* *the* *double* *doors* *,* *and* *he* *had* *to* *do* *it* *very* *carefully* *if* *he* *did* *not* *want* *to* *fall* *flat* *on* *his* *back* *before* *entering* *the* *room* *.*
*Gregor* *'s* *mother* *,* *her* *hair* *still* *dishevelled* *from* *bed* *despite* *the* *chief* *clerk* *'s* *being* *there* *,* *looked* *at* *his* *father* *.* *Then* *she* *unfolded* *her* *arms* *,* *took* *two* *steps* *forward* *towards* *Gregor* *and* *sank* *down* *onto* *the* *floor* *into* *her* *skirts* *that* *spread* *themselves* *out* *around* *her* *as* *her* *head* *disappeared* *down* *onto* *her* *breast* *.*
*But* *you* *,* *sir* *,* *you* *have* *a* *better* *overview* *than* *the* *rest* *of* *the* *staff* *,* *in* *fact* *,* *if* *I* *can* *say* *this* *in* *confidence* *,* *a* *better* *overview* *than* *the* *boss* *himself* *-* *it* *'s* *very* *easy* *for* *a* *businessman* *like* *him* *to* *make* *mistakes* *about* *his* *employees* *and* *judge* *them* *more* *harshly* *than* *he* *should* *.*
*And* *you* *'re* *also* *well* *aware* *that* *we* *travellers* *spend* *almost* *the* *whole* *year* *away* *from* *the* *office* *,* *so* *that* *we* *can* *very* *easily* *fall* *victim* *to* *gossip* *and* *chance* *and* *groundless* *complaints* *,* *and* *it* *'s* *almost* *impossible* *to* *defend* *yourself* *from* *that* *sort* *of* *thing* *,* *we* *do* *n't* *usually* *even* *hear* *about* *them* *,* *or* *if* *at* *all* *it* *'s* *when* *we* *arrive* *back* *home* *exhausted* *from* *a* *trip* *,* *and* *that* *'s* *when* *we* *feel* *the* *harmful* *effects* *of* *what* *'s* *been* *going* *on* *without* *even* *knowing* *what* *caused* *them* *.*
*But* *his* *sister* *was* *not* *there* *,* *Gregor* *would* *have* *to* *do* *the* *job* *himself* *.*
*And* *without* *considering* *that* *he* *still* *was* *not* *familiar* *with* *how* *well* *he* *could* *move* *about* *in* *his* *present* *state* *,* *or* *that* *his* *speech* *still* *might* *not* *-* *or* *probably* *would* *not* *-* *be* *understood* *,* *he* *let* *go* *of* *the* *door* *;* *pushed* *himself* *through* *the* *opening* *;* *tried* *to* *reach* *the* *chief* *clerk* *on* *the* *landing* *who* *,* *ridiculously* *,* *was* *holding* *on* *to* *the* *banister* *with* *both* *hands* *;* *but* *Gregor* *fell* *immediately* *over* *and* *,* *with* *a* *little* *scream* *as* *he* *sought* *something* *to* *hold* *onto* *,* *landed* *on* *his* *numerous* *little* *legs* *.*
*He* *had* *completely* *forgotten* *the* *chief* *clerk* *for* *the* *moment* *,* *but* *could* *not* *help* *himself* *snapping* *in* *the* *air* *with* *his* *jaws* *at* *the* *sight* *of* *the* *flow* *of* *coffee* *.*
*Eventually* *,* *though* *,* *Gregor* *realised* *that* *he* *had* *no* *choice* *as* *he* *saw* *,* *to* *his* *disgust* *,* *that* *he* *was* *quite* *incapable* *of* *going* *backwards* *in* *a* *straight* *line* *;* *so* *he* *began* *,* *as* *quickly* *as* *possible* *and* *with* *frequent* *anxious* *glances* *at* *his* *father* *,* *to* *turn* *himself* *round* *.*
*When* *he* *had* *nearly* *finished* *turning* *round* *,* *still* *listening* *to* *that* *hissing* *,* *he* *made* *a* *mistake* *and* *turned* *himself* *back* *a* *little* *the* *way* *he* *had* *just* *come* *.*
*Nor* *would* *he* *ever* *have* *allowed* *Gregor* *the* *time* *to* *get* *himself* *upright* *as* *preparation* *for* *getting* *through* *the* *doorway* *.*
*What* *he* *did* *,* *making* *more* *noise* *than* *ever* *,* *was* *to* *drive* *Gregor* *forwards* *all* *the* *harder* *as* *if* *there* *had* *been* *nothing* *in* *the* *way* *;* *it* *sounded* *to* *Gregor* *as* *if* *there* *was* *now* *more* *than* *one* *father* *behind* *him* *;* *it* *was* *not* *a* *pleasant* *experience* *,* *and* *Gregor* *pushed* *himself* *into* *the* *doorway* *without* *regard* *for* *what* *might* *happen* *.*
*One* *side* *of* *his* *body* *lifted* *itself* *,* *he* *lay* *at* *an* *angle* *in* *the* *doorway* *,* *one* *flank* *scraped* *on* *the* *white* *door* *and* *was* *painfully* *injured* *,* *leaving* *vile* *brown* *flecks* *on* *it* *,* *soon* *he* *was* *stuck* *fast* *and* *would* *not* *have* *been* *able* *to* *move* *at* *all* *by* *himself* *,* *the* *little* *legs* *along* *one* *side* *hung* *quivering* *in* *the* *air* *while* *those* *on* *the* *other* *side* *were* *pressed* *painfully* *against* *the* *ground* *.* *Then* *his* *father* *gave* *him* *a* *hefty* *shove* *from* *behind* *which* *released* *him* *from* *where* *he* *was* *held* *and* *sent* *him* *flying* *,* *and* *heavily* *bleeding* *,* *deep* *into* *his* *room* *.*
*He* *pushed* *himself* *over* *to* *the* *door* *,* *feeling* *his* *way* *clumsily* *with* *his* *antennae* *-* *of* *which* *he* *was* *now* *beginning* *to* *learn* *the* *value* *-* *in* *order* *to* *see* *what* *had* *been* *happening* *there* *.*
*If* *she* *did* *n't* *do* *it* *herself* *he* *would* *rather* *go* *hungry* *than* *draw* *her* *attention* *to* *it* *,* *although* *he* *did* *feel* *a* *terrible* *urge* *to* *rush* *forward* *from* *under* *the* *couch* *,* *throw* *himself* *at* *his* *sister* *'s* *feet* *and* *beg* *her* *for* *something* *good* *to* *eat* *.*
*She* *had* *hardly* *turned* *her* *back* *before* *Gregor* *came* *out* *again* *from* *under* *the* *couch* *and* *stretched* *himself* *.*
*When* *explaining* *things* *,* *his* *father* *repeated* *himself* *several* *times* *,* *partly* *because* *it* *was* *a* *long* *time* *since* *he* *had* *been* *occupied* *with* *these* *matters* *himself* *and* *partly* *because* *Gregor* *'s* *mother* *did* *not* *understand* *everything* *the* *first* *time* *.* *From* *these* *repeated* *explanations* *Gregor* *learned* *,* *to* *his* *pleasure* *,* *that* *despite* *all* *their* *misfortunes* *there* *was* *still* *some* *money* *available* *from* *the* *old* *days* *.*
*He* *could* *actually* *have* *used* *this* *surplus* *money* *to* *reduce* *his* *father* *'s* *debt* *to* *his* *boss* *,* *and* *the* *day* *when* *he* *could* *have* *freed* *himself* *from* *that* *job* *would* *have* *come* *much* *closer* *,* *but* *now* *it* *was* *certainly* *better* *the* *way* *his* *father* *had* *done* *things* *.*
*Whenever* *they* *began* *to* *talk* *of* *the* *need* *to* *earn* *money* *,* *Gregor* *would* *always* *first* *let* *go* *of* *the* *door* *and* *then* *throw* *himself* *onto* *the* *cool* *,* *leather* *sofa* *next* *to* *it* *,* *as* *he* *became* *quite* *hot* *with* *shame* *and* *regret* *.*
*Gregor* *went* *straight* *to* *hide* *himself* *under* *the* *couch* *,* *of* *course* *,* *but* *he* *had* *to* *wait* *until* *midday* *before* *his* *sister* *came* *back* *and* *she* *seemed* *much* *more* *uneasy* *than* *usual* *.*
*If* *she* *did* *not* *think* *this* *sheet* *was* *necessary* *then* *all* *she* *had* *to* *do* *was* *take* *it* *off* *again* *,* *as* *it* *was* *clear* *enough* *that* *it* *was* *no* *pleasure* *for* *Gregor* *to* *cut* *himself* *off* *so* *completely* *.* *She* *left* *the* *sheet* *where* *it* *was* *.*
*For* *the* *first* *fourteen* *days* *,* *Gregor* *'s* *parents* *could* *not* *bring* *themselves* *to* *come* *into* *the* *room* *to* *see* *him* *.* *He* *would* *often* *hear* *them* *say* *how* *they* *appreciated* *all* *the* *new* *work* *his* *sister* *was* *doing* *even* *though* *,* *before* *,* *they* *had* *seen* *her* *as* *a* *girl* *who* *was* *somewhat* *useless* *and* *frequently* *been* *annoyed* *with* *her* *.*
*Out* *of* *consideration* *for* *his* *parents* *,* *Gregor* *wanted* *to* *avoid* *being* *seen* *at* *the* *window* *during* *the* *day* *,* *the* *few* *square* *meters* *of* *the* *floor* *did* *not* *give* *him* *much* *room* *to* *crawl* *about* *,* *it* *was* *hard* *to* *just* *lie* *quietly* *through* *the* *night* *,* *his* *food* *soon* *stopped* *giving* *him* *any* *pleasure* *at* *all* *,* *and* *so* *,* *to* *entertain* *himself* *,* *he* *got* *into* *the* *habit* *of* *crawling* *up* *and* *down* *the* *walls* *and* *ceiling* *.*
*Very* *soon* *his* *sister* *noticed* *Gregor* *'s* *new* *way* *of* *entertaining* *himself* *-* *he* *had* *,* *after* *all* *,* *left* *traces* *of* *the* *adhesive* *from* *his* *feet* *as* *he* *crawled* *about* *-* *and* *got* *it* *into* *her* *head* *to* *make* *it* *as* *easy* *as* *possible* *for* *him* *by* *removing* *the* *furniture* *that* *got* *in* *his* *way* *,* *especially* *the* *chest* *of* *drawers* *and* *the* *desk* *.*
*The* *old* *chest* *of* *drawers* *was* *too* *heavy* *for* *a* *pair* *of* *feeble* *women* *to* *be* *heaving* *about* *,* *but* *Gregor* *listened* *as* *they* *pushed* *it* *from* *its* *place* *,* *his* *sister* *always* *taking* *on* *the* *heaviest* *part* *of* *the* *work* *for* *herself* *and* *ignoring* *her* *mother* *'s* *warnings* *that* *she* *would* *strain* *herself* *.*
*Gregor* *kept* *trying* *to* *assure* *himself* *that* *nothing* *unusual* *was* *happening* *,* *it* *was* *just* *a* *few* *pieces* *of* *furniture* *being* *moved* *after* *all* *,* *but* *he* *soon* *had* *to* *admit* *that* *the* *women* *going* *to* *and* *fro* *,* *their* *little* *calls* *to* *each* *other* *,* *the* *scraping* *of* *the* *furniture* *on* *the* *floor* *,* *all* *these* *things* *made* *him* *feel* *as* *if* *he* *were* *being* *assailed* *from* *all* *sides* *.* *With* *his* *head* *and* *legs* *pulled* *in* *against* *him* *and* *his* *body* *pressed* *to* *the* *floor* *,* *he* *was* *forced* *to* *admit* *to* *himself* *that* *he* *could* *not* *stand* *all* *of* *this* *much* *longer* *.*
*So* *,* *while* *the* *women* *were* *leant* *against* *the* *desk* *in* *the* *other* *room* *catching* *their* *breath* *,* *he* *sallied* *out* *,* *changed* *direction* *four* *times* *not* *knowing* *what* *he* *should* *save* *first* *before* *his* *attention* *was* *suddenly* *caught* *by* *the* *picture* *on* *the* *wall* *-* *which* *was* *already* *denuded* *of* *everything* *else* *that* *had* *been* *on* *it* *-* *of* *the* *lady* *dressed* *in* *copious* *fur* *.* *He* *hurried* *up* *onto* *the* *picture* *and* *pressed* *himself* *against* *its* *glass* *,* *it* *held* *him* *firmly* *and* *felt* *good* *on* *his* *hot* *belly* *.*
*They* *had* *not* *allowed* *themselves* *a* *long* *rest* *and* *came* *back* *quite* *soon* *;* *Grete* *had* *put* *her* *arm* *around* *her* *mother* *and* *was* *nearly* *carrying* *her* *.*
*She* *ran* *into* *the* *other* *room* *to* *fetch* *some* *kind* *of* *smelling* *salts* *to* *bring* *her* *mother* *out* *of* *her* *faint* *;* *Gregor* *wanted* *to* *help* *too* *-* *he* *could* *save* *his* *picture* *later* *,* *although* *he* *stuck* *fast* *to* *the* *glass* *and* *had* *to* *pull* *himself* *off* *by* *force* *;* *then* *he* *,* *too* *,* *ran* *into* *the* *next* *room* *as* *if* *he* *could* *advise* *his* *sister* *like* *in* *the* *old* *days* *;* *but* *he* *had* *to* *just* *stand* *behind* *her* *doing* *nothing* *;* *she* *was* *looking* *into* *various* *bottles* *,* *he* *startled* *her* *when* *she* *turned* *round* *;* *a* *bottle* *fell* *to* *the* *ground* *and* *broke* *;* *a* *splinter* *cut* *Gregor* *'s* *face* *,* *some* *kind* *of* *caustic* *medicine* *splashed* *all* *over* *him* *;* *now* *,* *without* *delaying* *any* *longer* *,* *Grete* *took* *hold* *of* *all* *the* *bottles* *she* *could* *and* *ran* *with* *them* *in* *to* *her* *mother* *;* *she* *slammed* *the* *door* *shut* *with* *her* *foot* *.*
*The* *maid* *,* *of* *course* *,* *had* *locked* *herself* *in* *her* *kitchen* *so* *that* *Grete* *would* *have* *to* *go* *and* *answer* *it* *.* *His* *father* *had* *arrived* *home* *.*
*So* *he* *fled* *to* *the* *door* *of* *his* *room* *and* *pressed* *himself* *against* *it* *so* *that* *his* *father* *,* *when* *he* *came* *in* *from* *the* *hall* *,* *could* *see* *straight* *away* *that* *Gregor* *had* *the* *best* *intentions* *and* *would* *go* *back* *into* *his* *room* *without* *delay* *,* *that* *it* *would* *not* *be* *necessary* *to* *drive* *him* *back* *but* *that* *they* *had* *only* *to* *open* *the* *door* *and* *he* *would* *disappear* *.*
*He* *probably* *did* *not* *even* *know* *himself* *what* *he* *had* *in* *mind* *,* *but* *nonetheless* *lifted* *his* *feet* *unusually* *high* *.*
*Now* *,* *as* *he* *lurched* *about* *in* *his* *efforts* *to* *muster* *all* *the* *strength* *he* *could* *for* *running* *he* *could* *hardly* *keep* *his* *eyes* *open* *;* *his* *thoughts* *became* *too* *slow* *for* *him* *to* *think* *of* *any* *other* *way* *of* *saving* *himself* *than* *running* *;* *he* *almost* *forgot* *that* *the* *walls* *were* *there* *for* *him* *to* *use* *although* *,* *here* *,* *they* *were* *concealed* *behind* *carefully* *carved* *furniture* *full* *of* *notches* *and* *protrusions* *-* *then* *,* *right* *beside* *him* *,* *lightly* *tossed* *,* *something* *flew* *down* *and* *rolled* *in* *front* *of* *him* *.*
*Another* *one* *however* *,* *immediately* *following* *it* *,* *hit* *squarely* *and* *lodged* *in* *his* *back* *;* *Gregor* *wanted* *to* *drag* *himself* *away* *,* *as* *if* *he* *could* *remove* *the* *surprising* *,* *the* *incredible* *pain* *by* *changing* *his* *position* *;* *but* *he* *felt* *as* *if* *nailed* *to* *the* *spot* *and* *spread* *himself* *out* *,* *all* *his* *senses* *in* *confusion* *.*
*The* *last* *thing* *he* *saw* *was* *the* *door* *of* *his* *room* *being* *pulled* *open* *,* *his* *sister* *was* *screaming* *,* *his* *mother* *ran* *out* *in* *front* *of* *her* *in* *her* *blouse* *(* *as* *his* *sister* *had* *taken* *off* *some* *of* *her* *clothes* *after* *she* *had* *fainted* *to* *make* *it* *easier* *for* *her* *to* *breathe* *)* *,* *she* *ran* *to* *his* *father* *,* *her* *skirts* *unfastened* *and* *sliding* *one* *after* *another* *to* *the* *ground* *,* *stumbling* *over* *the* *skirts* *she* *pushed* *herself* *to* *his* *father* *,* *her* *arms* *around* *him* *,* *uniting* *herself* *with* *him* *totally* *-* *now* *Gregor* *lost* *his* *ability* *to* *see* *anything* *-* *her* *hands* *behind* *his* *father* *'s* *head* *begging* *him* *to* *spare* *Gregor* *'s* *life* *.*
*This* *is* *what* *peace* *I* *get* *in* *my* *old* *age* *!* *"* *And* *supported* *by* *the* *two* *women* *he* *would* *lift* *himself* *up* *carefully* *as* *if* *he* *were* *carrying* *the* *greatest* *load* *himself* *,* *let* *the* *women* *take* *him* *to* *the* *door* *,* *send* *them* *off* *and* *carry* *on* *by* *himself* *while* *Gregor* *'s* *mother* *would* *throw* *down* *her* *needle* *and* *his* *sister* *her* *pen* *so* *that* *they* *could* *run* *after* *his* *father* *and* *continue* *being* *of* *help* *to* *him* *.*
*They* *carried* *out* *absolutely* *everything* *that* *the* *world* *expects* *from* *poor* *people* *,* *Gregor* *'s* *father* *brought* *bank* *employees* *their* *breakfast* *,* *his* *mother* *sacrificed* *herself* *by* *washing* *clothes* *for* *strangers* *,* *his* *sister* *ran* *back* *and* *forth* *behind* *her* *desk* *at* *the* *behest* *of* *the* *customers* *,* *but* *they* *just* *did* *not* *have* *the* *strength* *to* *do* *any* *more* *.*
*Just* *by* *chance* *one* *day* *,* *rather* *than* *any* *real* *curiosity* *,* *she* *opened* *the* *door* *to* *Gregor* *'s* *room* *and* *found* *herself* *face* *to* *face* *with* *him* *.* *He* *was* *taken* *totally* *by* *surprise* *,* *no-one* *was* *chasing* *him* *but* *he* *began* *to* *rush* *to* *and* *fro* *while* *she* *just* *stood* *there* *in* *amazement* *with* *her* *hands* *crossed* *in* *front* *of* *her* *.*
*Only* *if* *he* *happened* *to* *find* *himself* *next* *to* *the* *food* *that* *had* *been* *prepared* *for* *him* *he* *might* *take* *some* *of* *it* *into* *his* *mouth* *to* *play* *with* *it* *,* *leave* *it* *there* *a* *few* *hours* *and* *then* *,* *more* *often* *than* *not* *,* *spit* *it* *out* *again* *.*
*They* *do* *feed* *themselves* *.* *And* *here* *I* *am* *,* *dying* *!* *"*
*What* *'s* *more* *,* *there* *was* *now* *all* *the* *more* *reason* *to* *keep* *himself* *hidden* *as* *he* *was* *covered* *in* *the* *dust* *that* *lay* *everywhere* *in* *his* *room* *and* *flew* *up* *at* *the* *slightest* *movement* *;* *he* *carried* *threads* *,* *hairs* *,* *and* *remains* *of* *food* *about* *on* *his* *back* *and* *sides* *;* *he* *was* *much* *too* *indifferent* *to* *everything* *now* *to* *lay* *on* *his* *back* *and* *wipe* *himself* *on* *the* *carpet* *like* *he* *had* *used* *to* *do* *several* *times* *a* *day* *.*
*Meanwhile* *Gregor* *'s* *sister* *had* *overcome* *the* *despair* *she* *had* *fallen* *into* *when* *her* *playing* *was* *suddenly* *interrupted* *.* *She* *had* *let* *her* *hands* *drop* *and* *let* *violin* *and* *bow* *hang* *limply* *for* *a* *while* *but* *continued* *to* *look* *at* *the* *music* *as* *if* *still* *playing* *,* *but* *then* *she* *suddenly* *pulled* *herself* *together* *,* *lay* *the* *instrument* *on* *her* *mother* *'s* *lap* *who* *still* *sat* *laboriously* *struggling* *for* *breath* *where* *she* *was* *,* *and* *ran* *into* *the* *next* *room* *which* *,* *under* *pressure* *from* *her* *father* *,* *the* *three* *gentlemen* *were* *more* *quickly* *moving* *toward* *.*
*Gregor* *'s* *father* *staggered* *back* *to* *his* *seat* *,* *feeling* *his* *way* *with* *his* *hands* *,* *and* *fell* *into* *it* *;* *it* *looked* *as* *if* *he* *was* *stretching* *himself* *out* *for* *his* *usual* *evening* *nap* *but* *from* *the* *uncontrolled* *way* *his* *head* *kept* *nodding* *it* *could* *be* *seen* *that* *he* *was* *not* *sleeping* *at* *all* *.*
*We* *'ve* *only* *harmed* *ourselves* *by* *believing* *it* *for* *so* *long* *.*
*In* *her* *alarm* *,* *which* *was* *totally* *beyond* *Gregor* *'s* *comprehension* *,* *his* *sister* *even* *abandoned* *his* *mother* *as* *she* *pushed* *herself* *vigorously* *out* *of* *her* *chair* *as* *if* *more* *willing* *to* *sacrifice* *her* *own* *mother* *than* *stay* *anywhere* *near* *Gregor* *.* *She* *rushed* *over* *to* *behind* *her* *father* *,* *who* *had* *become* *excited* *merely* *because* *she* *was* *and* *stood* *up* *half* *raising* *his* *hands* *in* *front* *of* *Gregor* *'s* *sister* *as* *if* *to* *protect* *her* *.*
*All* *he* *had* *done* *was* *begin* *to* *turn* *round* *so* *that* *he* *could* *go* *back* *into* *his* *room* *,* *although* *that* *was* *in* *itself* *quite* *startling* *as* *his* *pain-wracked* *condition* *meant* *that* *turning* *round* *required* *a* *great* *deal* *of* *effort* *and* *he* *was* *using* *his* *head* *to* *help* *himself* *do* *it* *,* *repeatedly* *raising* *it* *and* *striking* *it* *against* *the* *floor* *.*
*``* *What* *now* *,* *then* *?* *,* *''* *Gregor* *asked* *himself* *as* *he* *looked* *round* *in* *the* *darkness* *.*
*``* *Now* *then* *,* *''* *said* *Mr.* *Samsa* *,* *``* *let* *'s* *give* *thanks* *to* *God* *for* *that* *.* *''* *He* *crossed* *himself* *,* *and* *the* *three* *women* *followed* *his* *example* *.*
*At* *first* *,* *he* *stood* *there* *still* *,* *looking* *at* *the* *ground* *as* *if* *the* *contents* *of* *his* *head* *were* *rearranging* *themselves* *into* *new* *positions* *.*
*Such* *dominions* *thus* *acquired* *are* *either* *accustomed* *to* *live* *under* *a* *prince* *,* *or* *to* *live* *in* *freedom* *;* *and* *are* *acquired* *either* *by* *the* *arms* *of* *the* *prince* *himself* *,* *or* *of* *others* *,* *or* *else* *by* *fortune* *or* *by* *ability* *.*
*I* *will* *leave* *out* *all* *discussion* *on* *republics* *,* *inasmuch* *as* *in* *another* *place* *I* *have* *written* *of* *them* *at* *length* *,* *and* *will* *address* *myself* *only* *to* *principalities* *.*
*I* *say* *at* *once* *there* *are* *fewer* *difficulties* *in* *holding* *hereditary* *states* *,* *and* *those* *long* *accustomed* *to* *the* *family* *of* *their* *prince* *,* *than* *new* *ones* *;* *for* *it* *is* *sufficient* *only* *not* *to* *transgress* *the* *customs* *of* *his* *ancestors* *,* *and* *to* *deal* *prudently* *with* *circumstances* *as* *they* *arise* *,* *for* *a* *prince* *of* *average* *powers* *to* *maintain* *himself* *in* *his* *state* *,* *unless* *he* *be* *deprived* *of* *it* *by* *some* *extraordinary* *and* *excessive* *force* *;* *and* *if* *he* *should* *be* *so* *deprived* *of* *it* *,* *whenever* *anything* *sinister* *happens* *to* *the* *usurper* *,* *he* *will* *regain* *it* *.*
*For* *these* *reasons* *Louis* *the* *Twelfth* *,* *King* *of* *France* *,* *quickly* *occupied* *Milan* *,* *and* *as* *quickly* *lost* *it* *;* *and* *to* *turn* *him* *out* *the* *first* *time* *it* *only* *needed* *Lodovico* *'s* *own* *forces* *;* *because* *those* *who* *had* *opened* *the* *gates* *to* *him* *,* *finding* *themselves* *deceived* *in* *their* *hopes* *of* *future* *benefit* *,* *would* *not* *endure* *the* *ill-treatment* *of* *the* *new* *prince* *.*
*It* *is* *very* *true* *that* *,* *after* *acquiring* *rebellious* *provinces* *a* *second* *time* *,* *they* *are* *not* *so* *lightly* *lost* *afterwards* *,* *because* *the* *prince* *,* *with* *little* *reluctance* *,* *takes* *the* *opportunity* *of* *the* *rebellion* *to* *punish* *the* *delinquents* *,* *to* *clear* *out* *the* *suspects* *,* *and* *to* *strengthen* *himself* *in* *the* *weakest* *places* *.*
*The* *general* *reasons* *for* *the* *first* *have* *been* *discussed* *;* *it* *remains* *to* *name* *those* *for* *the* *second* *,* *and* *to* *see* *what* *resources* *he* *had* *,* *and* *what* *any* *one* *in* *his* *situation* *would* *have* *had* *for* *maintaining* *himself* *more* *securely* *in* *his* *acquisition* *than* *did* *the* *King* *of* *France* *.*
*Upon* *this* *,* *one* *has* *to* *remark* *that* *men* *ought* *either* *to* *be* *well* *treated* *or* *crushed* *,* *because* *they* *can* *avenge* *themselves* *of* *lighter* *injuries* *,* *of* *more* *serious* *ones* *they* *can* *not* *;* *therefore* *the* *injury* *that* *is* *to* *be* *done* *to* *a* *man* *ought* *to* *be* *of* *such* *a* *kind* *that* *one* *does* *not* *stand* *in* *fear* *of* *revenge* *.*
*Again* *,* *the* *prince* *who* *holds* *a* *country* *differing* *in* *the* *above* *respects* *ought* *to* *make* *himself* *the* *head* *and* *defender* *of* *his* *less* *powerful* *neighbours* *,* *and* *to* *weaken* *the* *more* *powerful* *amongst* *them* *,* *taking* *care* *that* *no* *foreigner* *as* *powerful* *as* *himself* *shall* *,* *by* *any* *accident* *,* *get* *a* *footing* *there* *;* *for* *it* *will* *always* *happen* *that* *such* *a* *one* *will* *be* *introduced* *by* *those* *who* *are* *discontented* *,* *either* *through* *excess* *of* *ambition* *or* *through* *fear* *,* *as* *one* *has* *seen* *already* *.*
*Let* *any* *one* *now* *consider* *with* *what* *little* *difficulty* *the* *king* *could* *have* *maintained* *his* *position* *in* *Italy* *had* *he* *observed* *the* *rules* *above* *laid* *down* *,* *and* *kept* *all* *his* *friends* *secure* *and* *protected* *;* *for* *although* *they* *were* *numerous* *they* *were* *both* *weak* *and* *timid* *,* *some* *afraid* *of* *the* *Church* *,* *some* *of* *the* *Venetians* *,* *and* *thus* *they* *would* *always* *have* *been* *forced* *to* *stand* *in* *with* *him* *,* *and* *by* *their* *means* *he* *could* *easily* *have* *made* *himself* *secure* *against* *those* *who* *remained* *powerful* *.*
*It* *never* *occurred* *to* *him* *that* *by* *this* *action* *he* *was* *weakening* *himself* *,* *depriving* *himself* *of* *friends* *and* *of* *those* *who* *had* *thrown* *themselves* *into* *his* *lap* *,* *whilst* *he* *aggrandized* *the* *Church* *by* *adding* *much* *temporal* *power* *to* *the* *spiritual* *,* *thus* *giving* *it* *greater* *authority* *.*
*And* *having* *committed* *this* *prime* *error* *,* *he* *was* *obliged* *to* *follow* *it* *up* *,* *so* *much* *so* *that* *,* *to* *put* *an* *end* *to* *the* *ambition* *of* *Alexander* *,* *and* *to* *prevent* *his* *becoming* *the* *master* *of* *Tuscany* *,* *he* *was* *himself* *forced* *to* *come* *into* *Italy* *.*
*And* *as* *if* *it* *were* *not* *enough* *to* *have* *aggrandized* *the* *Church* *,* *and* *deprived* *himself* *of* *friends* *,* *he* *,* *wishing* *to* *have* *the* *kingdom* *of* *Naples* *,* *divides* *it* *with* *the* *King* *of* *Spain* *,* *and* *where* *he* *was* *the* *prime* *arbiter* *in* *Italy* *he* *takes* *an* *associate* *,* *so* *that* *the* *ambitious* *of* *that* *country* *and* *the* *malcontents* *of* *his* *own* *should* *have* *somewhere* *to* *shelter* *;* *and* *whereas* *he* *could* *have* *left* *in* *the* *kingdom* *his* *own* *pensioner* *as* *king* *,* *he* *drove* *him* *out* *,* *to* *put* *one* *there* *who* *was* *able* *to* *drive* *him* *,* *Louis* *,* *out* *in* *turn* *.*
*Which* *errors* *,* *had* *he* *lived* *,* *were* *not* *enough* *to* *injure* *him* *had* *he* *not* *made* *a* *sixth* *by* *taking* *away* *their* *dominions* *from* *the* *Venetians* *;* *because* *,* *had* *he* *not* *aggrandized* *the* *Church* *,* *nor* *brought* *Spain* *into* *Italy* *,* *it* *would* *have* *been* *very* *reasonable* *and* *necessary* *to* *humble* *them* *;* *but* *having* *first* *taken* *these* *steps* *,* *he* *ought* *never* *to* *have* *consented* *to* *their* *ruin* *,* *for* *they* *,* *being* *powerful* *,* *would* *always* *have* *kept* *off* *others* *from* *designs* *on* *Lombardy* *,* *to* *which* *the* *Venetians* *would* *never* *have* *consented* *except* *to* *become* *masters* *themselves* *there* *;* *also* *because* *the* *others* *would* *not* *wish* *to* *take* *Lombardy* *from* *France* *in* *order* *to* *give* *it* *to* *the* *Venetians* *,* *and* *to* *run* *counter* *to* *both* *they* *would* *not* *have* *had* *the* *courage* *.*
*Considering* *the* *difficulties* *which* *men* *have* *had* *to* *hold* *to* *a* *newly* *acquired* *state* *,* *some* *might* *wonder* *how* *,* *seeing* *that* *Alexander* *the* *Great* *became* *the* *master* *of* *Asia* *in* *a* *few* *years* *,* *and* *died* *whilst* *it* *was* *scarcely* *settled* *(* *whence* *it* *might* *appear* *reasonable* *that* *the* *whole* *empire* *would* *have* *rebelled* *)* *,* *nevertheless* *his* *successors* *maintained* *themselves* *,* *and* *had* *to* *meet* *no* *other* *difficulty* *than* *that* *which* *arose* *among* *themselves* *from* *their* *own* *ambitions* *.*
*Nor* *is* *it* *enough* *for* *you* *to* *have* *exterminated* *the* *family* *of* *the* *prince* *,* *because* *the* *lords* *that* *remain* *make* *themselves* *the* *heads* *of* *fresh* *movements* *against* *you* *,* *and* *as* *you* *are* *unable* *either* *to* *satisfy* *or* *exterminate* *them* *,* *that* *state* *is* *lost* *whenever* *time* *brings* *the* *opportunity* *.*
*And* *if* *his* *successors* *had* *been* *united* *they* *would* *have* *enjoyed* *it* *securely* *and* *at* *their* *ease* *,* *for* *there* *were* *no* *tumults* *raised* *in* *the* *kingdom* *except* *those* *they* *provoked* *themselves* *.*
*But* *when* *cities* *or* *countries* *are* *accustomed* *to* *live* *under* *a* *prince* *,* *and* *his* *family* *is* *exterminated* *,* *they* *,* *being* *on* *the* *one* *hand* *accustomed* *to* *obey* *and* *on* *the* *other* *hand* *not* *having* *the* *old* *prince* *,* *can* *not* *agree* *in* *making* *one* *from* *amongst* *themselves* *,* *and* *they* *do* *not* *know* *how* *to* *govern* *themselves* *.*
*It* *behoved* *him* *,* *therefore* *,* *to* *upset* *this* *state* *of* *affairs* *and* *embroil* *the* *powers* *,* *so* *as* *to* *make* *himself* *securely* *master* *of* *part* *of* *their* *states* *.*
*The* *duke* *,* *therefore* *,* *having* *acquired* *the* *Romagna* *and* *beaten* *the* *Colonnesi* *,* *while* *wishing* *to* *hold* *that* *and* *to* *advance* *further* *,* *was* *hindered* *by* *two* *things* *:* *the* *one* *,* *his* *forces* *did* *not* *appear* *loyal* *to* *him* *,* *the* *other* *,* *the* *goodwill* *of* *France* *:* *that* *is* *to* *say* *,* *he* *feared* *that* *the* *forces* *of* *the* *Orsini* *,* *which* *he* *was* *using* *,* *would* *not* *stand* *to* *him* *,* *that* *not* *only* *might* *they* *hinder* *him* *from* *winning* *more* *,* *but* *might* *themselves* *seize* *what* *he* *had* *won* *,* *and* *that* *the* *king* *might* *also* *do* *the* *same* *.*
*And* *because* *he* *knew* *that* *the* *past* *severity* *had* *caused* *some* *hatred* *against* *himself* *,* *so* *,* *to* *clear* *himself* *in* *the* *minds* *of* *the* *people* *,* *and* *gain* *them* *entirely* *to* *himself* *,* *he* *desired* *to* *show* *that* *,* *if* *any* *cruelty* *had* *been* *practised* *,* *it* *had* *not* *originated* *with* *him* *,* *but* *in* *the* *natural* *sternness* *of* *the* *minister* *.*
*But* *let* *us* *return* *whence* *we* *started* *.* *I* *say* *that* *the* *duke* *,* *finding* *himself* *now* *sufficiently* *powerful* *and* *partly* *secured* *from* *immediate* *dangers* *by* *having* *armed* *himself* *in* *his* *own* *way* *,* *and* *having* *in* *a* *great* *measure* *crushed* *those* *forces* *in* *his* *vicinity* *that* *could* *injure* *him* *if* *he* *wished* *to* *proceed* *with* *his* *conquest* *,* *had* *next* *to* *consider* *France* *,* *for* *he* *knew* *that* *the* *king* *,* *who* *too* *late* *was* *aware* *of* *his* *mistake* *,* *would* *not* *support* *him* *.*
*It* *was* *his* *intention* *to* *secure* *himself* *against* *them* *,* *and* *this* *he* *would* *have* *quickly* *accomplished* *had* *Alexander* *lived* *.*
*On* *the* *day* *that* *Julius* *the* *Second* *was* *elected* *,* *he* *told* *me* *that* *he* *had* *thought* *of* *everything* *that* *might* *occur* *at* *the* *death* *of* *his* *father* *,* *and* *had* *provided* *a* *remedy* *for* *all* *,* *except* *that* *he* *had* *never* *anticipated* *that* *,* *when* *the* *death* *did* *happen* *,* *he* *himself* *would* *be* *on* *the* *point* *to* *die* *.*
*Therefore* *,* *he* *who* *considers* *it* *necessary* *to* *secure* *himself* *in* *his* *new* *principality* *,* *to* *win* *friends* *,* *to* *overcome* *either* *by* *force* *or* *fraud* *,* *to* *make* *himself* *beloved* *and* *feared* *by* *the* *people* *,* *to* *be* *followed* *and* *revered* *by* *the* *soldiers* *,* *to* *exterminate* *those* *who* *have* *power* *or* *reason* *to* *hurt* *him* *,* *to* *change* *the* *old* *order* *of* *things* *for* *new* *,* *to* *be* *severe* *and* *gracious* *,* *magnanimous* *and* *liberal* *,* *to* *destroy* *a* *disloyal* *soldiery* *and* *to* *create* *new* *,* *to* *maintain* *friendship* *with* *kings* *and* *princes* *in* *such* *a* *way* *that* *they* *must* *help* *him* *with* *zeal* *and* *offend* *with* *caution* *,* *can* *not* *find* *a* *more* *lively* *example* *than* *the* *actions* *of* *this* *man* *.*
*Nevertheless* *,* *he* *accompanied* *his* *infamies* *with* *so* *much* *ability* *of* *mind* *and* *body* *that* *,* *having* *devoted* *himself* *to* *the* *military* *profession* *,* *he* *rose* *through* *its* *ranks* *to* *be* *Praetor* *of* *Syracuse* *.*
*Being* *established* *in* *that* *position* *,* *and* *having* *deliberately* *resolved* *to* *make* *himself* *prince* *and* *to* *seize* *by* *violence* *,* *without* *obligation* *to* *others* *,* *that* *which* *had* *been* *conceded* *to* *him* *by* *assent* *,* *he* *came* *to* *an* *understanding* *for* *this* *purpose* *with* *Amilcar* *,* *the* *Carthaginian* *,* *who* *,* *with* *his* *army* *,* *was* *fighting* *in* *Sicily* *.*
*Still* *,* *if* *the* *courage* *of* *Agathocles* *in* *entering* *into* *and* *extricating* *himself* *from* *dangers* *be* *considered* *,* *together* *with* *his* *greatness* *of* *mind* *in* *enduring* *and* *overcoming* *hardships* *,* *it* *can* *not* *be* *seen* *why* *he* *should* *be* *esteemed* *less* *than* *the* *most* *notable* *captain* *.*
*When* *the* *viands* *and* *all* *the* *other* *entertainments* *that* *are* *usual* *in* *such* *banquets* *were* *finished* *,* *Oliverotto* *artfully* *began* *certain* *grave* *discourses* *,* *speaking* *of* *the* *greatness* *of* *Pope* *Alexander* *and* *his* *son* *Cesare* *,* *and* *of* *their* *enterprises* *,* *to* *which* *discourse* *Giovanni* *and* *others* *answered* *;* *but* *he* *rose* *at* *once* *,* *saying* *that* *such* *matters* *ought* *to* *be* *discussed* *in* *a* *more* *private* *place* *,* *and* *he* *betook* *himself* *to* *a* *chamber* *,* *whither* *Giovanni* *and* *the* *rest* *of* *the* *citizens* *went* *in* *after* *him* *.*
*And* *his* *destruction* *would* *have* *been* *as* *difficult* *as* *that* *of* *Agathocles* *if* *he* *had* *not* *allowed* *himself* *to* *be* *overreached* *by* *Cesare* *Borgia* *,* *who* *took* *him* *with* *the* *Orsini* *and* *Vitelli* *at* *Sinigalia* *,* *as* *was* *stated* *above* *.* *Thus* *one* *year* *after* *he* *had* *committed* *this* *parricide* *,* *he* *was* *strangled* *,* *together* *with* *Vitellozzo* *,* *whom* *he* *had* *made* *his* *leader* *in* *valour* *and* *wickedness* *.*
*Some* *may* *wonder* *how* *it* *can* *happen* *that* *Agathocles* *,* *and* *his* *like* *,* *after* *infinite* *treacheries* *and* *cruelties* *,* *should* *live* *for* *long* *secure* *in* *his* *country* *,* *and* *defend* *himself* *from* *external* *enemies* *,* *and* *never* *be* *conspired* *against* *by* *his* *own* *citizens* *;* *seeing* *that* *many* *others* *,* *by* *means* *of* *cruelty* *,* *have* *never* *been* *able* *even* *in* *peaceful* *times* *to* *hold* *the* *state* *,* *still* *less* *in* *the* *doubtful* *times* *of* *war* *.*
*It* *is* *impossible* *for* *those* *who* *follow* *the* *other* *to* *maintain* *themselves* *.*
*He* *who* *does* *otherwise* *,* *either* *from* *timidity* *or* *evil* *advice* *,* *is* *always* *compelled* *to* *keep* *the* *knife* *in* *his* *hand* *;* *neither* *can* *he* *rely* *on* *his* *subjects* *,* *nor* *can* *they* *attach* *themselves* *to* *him* *,* *owing* *to* *their* *continued* *and* *repeated* *wrongs* *.*
*He* *who* *obtains* *sovereignty* *by* *the* *assistance* *of* *the* *nobles* *maintains* *himself* *with* *more* *difficulty* *than* *he* *who* *comes* *to* *it* *by* *the* *aid* *of* *the* *people* *,* *because* *the* *former* *finds* *himself* *with* *many* *around* *him* *who* *consider* *themselves* *his* *equals* *,* *and* *because* *of* *this* *he* *can* *neither* *rule* *nor* *manage* *them* *to* *his* *liking* *.*
*But* *he* *who* *reaches* *sovereignty* *by* *popular* *favour* *finds* *himself* *alone* *,* *and* *has* *none* *around* *him* *,* *or* *few* *,* *who* *are* *not* *prepared* *to* *obey* *him* *.*
*It* *is* *to* *be* *added* *also* *that* *a* *prince* *can* *never* *secure* *himself* *against* *a* *hostile* *people* *,* *because* *of* *their* *being* *too* *many* *,* *whilst* *from* *the* *nobles* *he* *can* *secure* *himself* *,* *as* *they* *are* *few* *in* *number* *.*
*The* *worst* *that* *a* *prince* *may* *expect* *from* *a* *hostile* *people* *is* *to* *be* *abandoned* *by* *them* *;* *but* *from* *hostile* *nobles* *he* *has* *not* *only* *to* *fear* *abandonment* *,* *but* *also* *that* *they* *will* *rise* *against* *him* *;* *for* *they* *,* *being* *in* *these* *affairs* *more* *far-seeing* *and* *astute* *,* *always* *come* *forward* *in* *time* *to* *save* *themselves* *,* *and* *to* *obtain* *favours* *from* *him* *whom* *they* *expect* *to* *prevail* *.*
*Those* *who* *so* *bind* *themselves* *,* *and* *are* *not* *rapacious* *,* *ought* *to* *be* *honoured* *and* *loved* *;* *those* *who* *do* *not* *bind* *themselves* *may* *be* *dealt* *with* *in* *two* *ways* *;* *they* *may* *fail* *to* *do* *this* *through* *pusillanimity* *and* *a* *natural* *want* *of* *courage* *,* *in* *which* *case* *you* *ought* *to* *make* *use* *of* *them* *,* *especially* *of* *those* *who* *are* *of* *good* *counsel* *;* *and* *thus* *,* *whilst* *in* *prosperity* *you* *honour* *them* *,* *in* *adversity* *you* *do* *not* *have* *to* *fear* *them* *.*
*But* *when* *for* *their* *own* *ambitious* *ends* *they* *shun* *binding* *themselves* *,* *it* *is* *a* *token* *that* *they* *are* *giving* *more* *thought* *to* *themselves* *than* *to* *you* *,* *and* *a* *prince* *ought* *to* *guard* *against* *such* *,* *and* *to* *fear* *them* *as* *if* *they* *were* *open* *enemies* *,* *because* *in* *adversity* *they* *always* *help* *to* *ruin* *him* *.*
*Nabis* *,* *Prince* *of* *the* *Spartans* *,* *sustained* *the* *attack* *of* *all* *Greece* *,* *and* *of* *a* *victorious* *Roman* *army* *,* *and* *against* *them* *he* *defended* *his* *country* *and* *his* *government* *;* *and* *for* *the* *overcoming* *of* *this* *peril* *it* *was* *only* *necessary* *for* *him* *to* *make* *himself* *secure* *against* *a* *few* *,* *but* *this* *would* *not* *have* *been* *sufficient* *had* *the* *people* *been* *hostile* *.*
*And* *do* *not* *let* *any* *one* *impugn* *this* *statement* *with* *the* *trite* *proverb* *that* *``* *He* *who* *builds* *on* *the* *people* *,* *builds* *on* *the* *mud* *,* *''* *for* *this* *is* *true* *when* *a* *private* *citizen* *makes* *a* *foundation* *there* *,* *and* *persuades* *himself* *that* *the* *people* *will* *free* *him* *when* *he* *is* *oppressed* *by* *his* *enemies* *or* *by* *the* *magistrates* *;* *wherein* *he* *would* *find* *himself* *very* *often* *deceived* *,* *as* *happened* *to* *the* *Gracchi* *in* *Rome* *and* *to* *Messer* *Giorgio* *Scali* *in* *Florence* *.*
*But* *granted* *a* *prince* *who* *has* *established* *himself* *as* *above* *,* *who* *can* *command* *,* *and* *is* *a* *man* *of* *courage* *,* *undismayed* *in* *adversity* *,* *who* *does* *not* *fail* *in* *other* *qualifications* *,* *and* *who* *,* *by* *his* *resolution* *and* *energy* *,* *keeps* *the* *whole* *people* *encouraged* *-* *such* *a* *one* *will* *never* *find* *himself* *deceived* *in* *them* *,* *and* *it* *will* *be* *shown* *that* *he* *has* *laid* *his* *foundations* *well* *.*
*It* *is* *necessary* *to* *consider* *another* *point* *in* *examining* *the* *character* *of* *these* *principalities* *:* *that* *is* *,* *whether* *a* *prince* *has* *such* *power* *that* *,* *in* *case* *of* *need* *,* *he* *can* *support* *himself* *with* *his* *own* *resources* *,* *or* *whether* *he* *has* *always* *need* *of* *the* *assistance* *of* *others* *.*
*And* *to* *make* *this* *quite* *clear* *I* *say* *that* *I* *consider* *those* *who* *are* *able* *to* *support* *themselves* *by* *their* *own* *resources* *who* *can* *,* *either* *by* *abundance* *of* *men* *or* *money* *,* *raise* *a* *sufficient* *army* *to* *join* *battle* *against* *any* *one* *who* *comes* *to* *attack* *them* *;* *and* *I* *consider* *those* *always* *to* *have* *need* *of* *others* *who* *can* *not* *show* *themselves* *against* *the* *enemy* *in* *the* *field* *,* *but* *are* *forced* *to* *defend* *themselves* *by* *sheltering* *behind* *walls* *.*
*Therefore* *,* *a* *prince* *who* *has* *a* *strong* *city* *,* *and* *had* *not* *made* *himself* *odious* *,* *will* *not* *be* *attacked* *,* *or* *if* *any* *one* *should* *attack* *he* *will* *only* *be* *driven* *off* *with* *disgrace* *;* *again* *,* *because* *that* *the* *affairs* *of* *this* *world* *are* *so* *changeable* *,* *it* *is* *almost* *impossible* *to* *keep* *an* *army* *a* *whole* *year* *in* *the* *field* *without* *being* *interfered* *with* *.*
*And* *whoever* *should* *reply* *:* *If* *the* *people* *have* *property* *outside* *the* *city* *,* *and* *see* *it* *burnt* *,* *they* *will* *not* *remain* *patient* *,* *and* *the* *long* *siege* *and* *self-interest* *will* *make* *them* *forget* *their* *prince* *;* *to* *this* *I* *answer* *that* *a* *powerful* *and* *courageous* *prince* *will* *overcome* *all* *such* *difficulties* *by* *giving* *at* *one* *time* *hope* *to* *his* *subjects* *that* *the* *evil* *will* *not* *be* *for* *long* *,* *at* *another* *time* *fear* *of* *the* *cruelty* *of* *the* *enemy* *,* *then* *preserving* *himself* *adroitly* *from* *those* *subjects* *who* *seem* *to* *him* *to* *be* *too* *bold* *.*
*These* *princes* *alone* *have* *states* *and* *do* *not* *defend* *them* *;* *and* *they* *have* *subjects* *and* *do* *not* *rule* *them* *;* *and* *the* *states* *,* *although* *unguarded* *,* *are* *not* *taken* *from* *them* *,* *and* *the* *subjects* *,* *although* *not* *ruled* *,* *do* *not* *care* *,* *and* *they* *have* *neither* *the* *desire* *nor* *the* *ability* *to* *alienate* *themselves* *.*
*They* *are* *ready* *enough* *to* *be* *your* *soldiers* *whilst* *you* *do* *not* *make* *war* *,* *but* *if* *war* *comes* *they* *take* *themselves* *off* *or* *run* *from* *the* *foe* *;* *which* *I* *should* *have* *little* *trouble* *to* *prove* *,* *for* *the* *ruin* *of* *Italy* *has* *been* *caused* *by* *nothing* *else* *than* *by* *resting* *all* *her* *hopes* *for* *many* *years* *on* *mercenaries* *,* *and* *although* *they* *formerly* *made* *some* *display* *and* *appeared* *valiant* *amongst* *themselves* *,* *yet* *when* *the* *foreigners* *came* *they* *showed* *what* *they* *were* *.*
*Duke* *Filippo* *being* *dead* *,* *the* *Milanese* *enlisted* *Francesco* *Sforza* *against* *the* *Venetians* *,* *and* *he* *,* *having* *overcome* *the* *enemy* *at* *Caravaggio* *,* *allied* *himself* *with* *them* *to* *crush* *the* *Milanese* *,* *his* *masters* *.*
*His* *father* *,* *Sforza* *,* *having* *been* *engaged* *by* *Queen* *Johanna* *of* *Naples* *,* *left* *her* *unprotected* *,* *so* *that* *she* *was* *forced* *to* *throw* *herself* *into* *the* *arms* *of* *the* *King* *of* *Aragon* *,* *in* *order* *to* *save* *her* *kingdom* *.*
*And* *if* *the* *Venetians* *and* *Florentines* *formerly* *extended* *their* *dominions* *by* *these* *arms* *,* *and* *yet* *their* *captains* *did* *not* *make* *themselves* *princes* *,* *but* *have* *defended* *them* *,* *I* *reply* *that* *the* *Florentines* *in* *this* *case* *have* *been* *favoured* *by* *chance* *,* *for* *of* *the* *able* *captains* *,* *of* *whom* *they* *might* *have* *stood* *in* *fear* *,* *some* *have* *not* *conquered* *,* *some* *have* *been* *opposed* *,* *and* *others* *have* *turned* *their* *ambitions* *elsewhere* *.* *One* *who* *did* *not* *conquer* *was* *Giovanni* *Acuto* *,* *and* *since* *he* *did* *not* *conquer* *his* *fidelity* *can* *not* *be* *proved* *;* *but* *every* *one* *will* *acknowledge* *that* *,* *had* *he* *conquered* *,* *the* *Florentines* *would* *have* *stood* *at* *his* *discretion* *.*
*And* *in* *the* *beginning* *of* *their* *expansion* *on* *land* *,* *through* *not* *having* *much* *territory* *,* *and* *because* *of* *their* *great* *reputation* *,* *they* *had* *not* *much* *to* *fear* *from* *their* *captains* *;* *but* *when* *they* *expanded* *,* *as* *under* *Carmignuola* *,* *they* *had* *a* *taste* *of* *this* *mistake* *;* *for* *,* *having* *found* *him* *a* *most* *valiant* *man* *(* *they* *beat* *the* *Duke* *of* *Milan* *under* *his* *leadership* *)* *,* *and* *,* *on* *the* *other* *hand* *,* *knowing* *how* *lukewarm* *he* *was* *in* *the* *war* *,* *they* *feared* *they* *would* *no* *longer* *conquer* *under* *him* *,* *and* *for* *this* *reason* *they* *were* *not* *willing* *,* *nor* *were* *they* *able* *,* *to* *let* *him* *go* *;* *and* *so* *,* *not* *to* *lose* *again* *that* *which* *they* *had* *acquired* *,* *they* *were* *compelled* *,* *in* *order* *to* *secure* *themselves* *,* *to* *murder* *him* *.*
*And* *although* *ancient* *histories* *may* *be* *full* *of* *examples* *,* *I* *do* *not* *wish* *to* *leave* *this* *recent* *one* *of* *Pope* *Julius* *the* *Second* *,* *the* *peril* *of* *which* *can* *not* *fail* *to* *be* *perceived* *;* *for* *he* *,* *wishing* *to* *get* *Ferrara* *,* *threw* *himself* *entirely* *into* *the* *hands* *of* *the* *foreigner* *.*
*David* *offered* *himself* *to* *Saul* *to* *fight* *with* *Goliath* *,* *the* *Philistine* *champion* *,* *and* *,* *to* *give* *him* *courage* *,* *Saul* *armed* *him* *with* *his* *own* *weapons* *;* *which* *David* *rejected* *as* *soon* *as* *he* *had* *them* *on* *his* *back* *,* *saying* *he* *could* *make* *no* *use* *of* *them* *,* *and* *that* *he* *wished* *to* *meet* *the* *enemy* *with* *his* *sling* *and* *his* *knife* *.*
*And* *the* *way* *to* *make* *ready* *one* *'s* *own* *forces* *will* *be* *easily* *found* *if* *the* *rules* *suggested* *by* *me* *shall* *be* *reflected* *upon* *,* *and* *if* *one* *will* *consider* *how* *Philip* *,* *the* *father* *of* *Alexander* *the* *Great* *,* *and* *many* *republics* *and* *princes* *have* *armed* *and* *organized* *themselves* *,* *to* *which* *rules* *I* *entirely* *commit* *myself* *.*
*For* *among* *other* *evils* *which* *being* *unarmed* *brings* *you* *,* *it* *causes* *you* *to* *be* *despised* *,* *and* *this* *is* *one* *of* *those* *ignominies* *against* *which* *a* *prince* *ought* *to* *guard* *himself* *,* *as* *is* *shown* *later* *on* *.*
*He* *ought* *never* *,* *therefore* *,* *to* *have* *out* *of* *his* *thoughts* *this* *subject* *of* *war* *,* *and* *in* *peace* *he* *should* *addict* *himself* *more* *to* *its* *exercise* *than* *in* *war* *;* *this* *he* *can* *do* *in* *two* *ways* *,* *the* *one* *by* *action* *,* *the* *other* *by* *study* *.*
*Philopoemen* *,* *Prince* *of* *the* *Achaeans* *,* *among* *other* *praises* *which* *writers* *have* *bestowed* *on* *him* *,* *is* *commended* *because* *in* *time* *of* *peace* *he* *never* *had* *anything* *in* *his* *mind* *but* *the* *rules* *of* *war* *;* *and* *when* *he* *was* *in* *the* *country* *with* *friends* *,* *he* *often* *stopped* *and* *reasoned* *with* *them* *:* *"* *If* *the* *enemy* *should* *be* *upon* *that* *hill* *,* *and* *we* *should* *find* *ourselves* *here* *with* *our* *army* *,* *with* *whom* *would* *be* *the* *advantage* *?*
*But* *to* *exercise* *the* *intellect* *the* *prince* *should* *read* *histories* *,* *and* *study* *there* *the* *actions* *of* *illustrious* *men* *,* *to* *see* *how* *they* *have* *borne* *themselves* *in* *war* *,* *to* *examine* *the* *causes* *of* *their* *victories* *and* *defeat* *,* *so* *as* *to* *avoid* *the* *latter* *and* *imitate* *the* *former* *;* *and* *above* *all* *do* *as* *an* *illustrious* *man* *did* *,* *who* *took* *as* *an* *exemplar* *one* *who* *had* *been* *praised* *and* *famous* *before* *him* *,* *and* *whose* *achievements* *and* *deeds* *he* *always* *kept* *in* *his* *mind* *,* *as* *it* *is* *said* *Alexander* *the* *Great* *imitated* *Achilles* *,* *Caesar* *Alexander* *,* *Scipio* *Cyrus* *.*
*Therefore* *,* *putting* *on* *one* *side* *imaginary* *things* *concerning* *a* *prince* *,* *and* *discussing* *those* *which* *are* *real* *,* *I* *say* *that* *all* *men* *when* *they* *are* *spoken* *of* *,* *and* *chiefly* *princes* *for* *being* *more* *highly* *placed* *,* *are* *remarkable* *for* *some* *of* *those* *qualities* *which* *bring* *them* *either* *blame* *or* *praise* *;* *and* *thus* *it* *is* *that* *one* *is* *reputed* *liberal* *,* *another* *miserly* *,* *using* *a* *Tuscan* *term* *(* *because* *an* *avaricious* *person* *in* *our* *language* *is* *still* *he* *who* *desires* *to* *possess* *by* *robbery* *,* *whilst* *we* *call* *one* *miserly* *who* *deprives* *himself* *too* *much* *of* *the* *use* *of* *his* *own* *)* *;* *one* *is* *reputed* *generous* *,* *one* *rapacious* *;* *one* *cruel* *,* *one* *compassionate* *;* *one* *faithless* *,* *another* *faithful* *;* *one* *effeminate* *and* *cowardly* *,* *another* *bold* *and* *brave* *;* *one* *affable* *,* *another* *haughty* *;* *one* *lascivious* *,* *another* *chaste* *;* *one* *sincere* *,* *another* *cunning* *;* *one* *hard* *,* *another* *easy* *;* *one* *grave* *,* *another* *frivolous* *;* *one* *religious* *,* *another* *unbelieving* *,* *and* *the* *like* *.*
*And* *I* *know* *that* *every* *one* *will* *confess* *that* *it* *would* *be* *most* *praiseworthy* *in* *a* *prince* *to* *exhibit* *all* *the* *above* *qualities* *that* *are* *considered* *good* *;* *but* *because* *they* *can* *neither* *be* *entirely* *possessed* *nor* *observed* *,* *for* *human* *conditions* *do* *not* *permit* *it* *,* *it* *is* *necessary* *for* *him* *to* *be* *sufficiently* *prudent* *that* *he* *may* *know* *how* *to* *avoid* *the* *reproach* *of* *those* *vices* *which* *would* *lose* *him* *his* *state* *;* *and* *also* *to* *keep* *himself* *,* *if* *it* *be* *possible* *,* *from* *those* *which* *would* *not* *lose* *him* *it* *;* *but* *this* *not* *being* *possible* *,* *he* *may* *with* *less* *hesitation* *abandon* *himself* *to* *them* *.*
*And* *again* *,* *he* *need* *not* *make* *himself* *uneasy* *at* *incurring* *a* *reproach* *for* *those* *vices* *without* *which* *the* *state* *can* *only* *be* *saved* *with* *difficulty* *,* *for* *if* *everything* *is* *considered* *carefully* *,* *it* *will* *be* *found* *that* *something* *which* *looks* *like* *virtue* *,* *if* *followed* *,* *would* *be* *his* *ruin* *;* *whilst* *something* *else* *,* *which* *looks* *like* *vice* *,* *yet* *followed* *brings* *him* *security* *and* *prosperity* *.*
*Therefore* *,* *a* *prince* *,* *not* *being* *able* *to* *exercise* *this* *virtue* *of* *liberality* *in* *such* *a* *way* *that* *it* *is* *recognized* *,* *except* *to* *his* *cost* *,* *if* *he* *is* *wise* *he* *ought* *not* *to* *fear* *the* *reputation* *of* *being* *mean* *,* *for* *in* *time* *he* *will* *come* *to* *be* *more* *considered* *than* *if* *liberal* *,* *seeing* *that* *with* *his* *economy* *his* *revenues* *are* *enough* *,* *that* *he* *can* *defend* *himself* *against* *all* *attacks* *,* *and* *is* *able* *to* *engage* *in* *enterprises* *without* *burdening* *his* *people* *;* *thus* *it* *comes* *to* *pass* *that* *he* *exercises* *liberality* *towards* *all* *from* *whom* *he* *does* *not* *take* *,* *who* *are* *numberless* *,* *and* *meanness* *towards* *those* *to* *whom* *he* *does* *not* *give* *,* *who* *are* *few* *.*
*A* *prince* *,* *therefore* *,* *provided* *that* *he* *has* *not* *to* *rob* *his* *subjects* *,* *that* *he* *can* *defend* *himself* *,* *that* *he* *does* *not* *become* *poor* *and* *abject* *,* *that* *he* *is* *not* *forced* *to* *become* *rapacious* *,* *ought* *to* *hold* *of* *little* *account* *a* *reputation* *for* *being* *mean* *,* *for* *it* *is* *one* *of* *those* *vices* *which* *will* *enable* *him* *to* *govern* *.*
*And* *a* *prince* *should* *guard* *himself* *,* *above* *all* *things* *,* *against* *being* *despised* *and* *hated* *;* *and* *liberality* *leads* *you* *to* *both* *.*
*This* *disposition* *,* *if* *he* *had* *been* *continued* *in* *the* *command* *,* *would* *have* *destroyed* *in* *time* *the* *fame* *and* *glory* *of* *Scipio* *;* *but* *,* *he* *being* *under* *the* *control* *of* *the* *Senate* *,* *this* *injurious* *characteristic* *not* *only* *concealed* *itself* *,* *but* *contributed* *to* *his* *glory* *.*
*Returning* *to* *the* *question* *of* *being* *feared* *or* *loved* *,* *I* *come* *to* *the* *conclusion* *that* *,* *men* *loving* *according* *to* *their* *own* *will* *and* *fearing* *according* *to* *that* *of* *the* *prince* *,* *a* *wise* *prince* *should* *establish* *himself* *on* *that* *which* *is* *in* *his* *own* *control* *and* *not* *in* *that* *of* *others* *;* *he* *must* *endeavour* *only* *to* *avoid* *hatred* *,* *as* *is* *noted* *.*
*Therefore* *it* *is* *necessary* *for* *a* *prince* *to* *understand* *how* *to* *avail* *himself* *of* *the* *beast* *and* *the* *man* *.*
*A* *prince* *,* *therefore* *,* *being* *compelled* *knowingly* *to* *adopt* *the* *beast* *,* *ought* *to* *choose* *the* *fox* *and* *the* *lion* *;* *because* *the* *lion* *can* *not* *defend* *himself* *against* *snares* *and* *the* *fox* *can* *not* *defend* *himself* *against* *wolves* *.*
*But* *it* *is* *necessary* *to* *know* *well* *how* *to* *disguise* *this* *characteristic* *,* *and* *to* *be* *a* *great* *pretender* *and* *dissembler* *;* *and* *men* *are* *so* *simple* *,* *and* *so* *subject* *to* *present* *necessities* *,* *that* *he* *who* *seeks* *to* *deceive* *will* *always* *find* *someone* *who* *will* *allow* *himself* *to* *be* *deceived* *.*
*Therefore* *it* *is* *necessary* *for* *him* *to* *have* *a* *mind* *ready* *to* *turn* *itself* *accordingly* *as* *the* *winds* *and* *variations* *of* *fortune* *force* *it* *,* *yet* *,* *as* *I* *have* *said* *above* *,* *not* *to* *diverge* *from* *the* *good* *if* *he* *can* *avoid* *doing* *so* *,* *but* *,* *if* *compelled* *,* *then* *to* *know* *how* *to* *set* *about* *it* *.*
*Every* *one* *sees* *what* *you* *appear* *to* *be* *,* *few* *really* *know* *what* *you* *are* *,* *and* *those* *few* *dare* *not* *oppose* *themselves* *to* *the* *opinion* *of* *the* *many* *,* *who* *have* *the* *majesty* *of* *the* *state* *to* *defend* *them* *;* *and* *in* *the* *actions* *of* *all* *men* *,* *and* *especially* *of* *princes* *,* *which* *it* *is* *not* *prudent* *to* *challenge* *,* *one* *judges* *by* *the* *result* *.*
*It* *makes* *him* *contemptible* *to* *be* *considered* *fickle* *,* *frivolous* *,* *effeminate* *,* *mean-spirited* *,* *irresolute* *,* *from* *all* *of* *which* *a* *prince* *should* *guard* *himself* *as* *from* *a* *rock* *;* *and* *he* *should* *endeavour* *to* *show* *in* *his* *actions* *greatness* *,* *courage* *,* *gravity* *,* *and* *fortitude* *;* *and* *in* *his* *private* *dealings* *with* *his* *subjects* *let* *him* *show* *that* *his* *judgments* *are* *irrevocable* *,* *and* *maintain* *himself* *in* *such* *reputation* *that* *no* *one* *can* *hope* *either* *to* *deceive* *him* *or* *to* *get* *round* *him* *.*
*But* *concerning* *his* *subjects* *,* *when* *affairs* *outside* *are* *disturbed* *he* *has* *only* *to* *fear* *that* *they* *will* *conspire* *secretly* *,* *from* *which* *a* *prince* *can* *easily* *secure* *himself* *by* *avoiding* *being* *hated* *and* *despised* *,* *and* *by* *keeping* *the* *people* *satisfied* *with* *him* *,* *which* *it* *is* *most* *necessary* *for* *him* *to* *accomplish* *,* *as* *I* *said* *above* *at* *length* *.*
*And* *as* *experience* *shows* *,* *many* *have* *been* *the* *conspiracies* *,* *but* *few* *have* *been* *successful* *;* *because* *he* *who* *conspires* *can* *not* *act* *alone* *,* *nor* *can* *he* *take* *a* *companion* *except* *from* *those* *whom* *he* *believes* *to* *be* *malcontents* *,* *and* *as* *soon* *as* *you* *have* *opened* *your* *mind* *to* *a* *malcontent* *you* *have* *given* *him* *the* *material* *with* *which* *to* *content* *himself* *,* *for* *by* *denouncing* *you* *he* *can* *look* *for* *every* *advantage* *;* *so* *that* *,* *seeing* *the* *gain* *from* *this* *course* *to* *be* *assured* *,* *and* *seeing* *the* *other* *to* *be* *doubtful* *and* *full* *of* *dangers* *,* *he* *must* *be* *a* *very* *rare* *friend* *,* *or* *a* *thoroughly* *obstinate* *enemy* *of* *the* *prince* *,* *to* *keep* *faith* *with* *you* *.*
*And* *further* *,* *I* *consider* *that* *a* *prince* *ought* *to* *cherish* *the* *nobles* *,* *but* *not* *so* *as* *to* *make* *himself* *hated* *by* *the* *people* *.*
*And* *here* *it* *should* *be* *noted* *that* *hatred* *is* *acquired* *as* *much* *by* *good* *works* *as* *by* *bad* *ones* *,* *therefore* *,* *as* *I* *said* *before* *,* *a* *prince* *wishing* *to* *keep* *his* *state* *is* *very* *often* *forced* *to* *do* *evil* *;* *for* *when* *that* *body* *is* *corrupt* *whom* *you* *think* *you* *have* *need* *of* *to* *maintain* *yourself* *-* *it* *may* *be* *either* *the* *people* *or* *the* *soldiers* *or* *the* *nobles* *-* *you* *have* *to* *submit* *to* *its* *humours* *and* *to* *gratify* *them* *,* *and* *then* *good* *works* *will* *do* *you* *harm* *.*
*But* *let* *us* *come* *to* *Alexander* *,* *who* *was* *a* *man* *of* *such* *great* *goodness* *,* *that* *among* *the* *other* *praises* *which* *are* *accorded* *him* *is* *this* *,* *that* *in* *the* *fourteen* *years* *he* *held* *the* *empire* *no* *one* *was* *ever* *put* *to* *death* *by* *him* *unjudged* *;* *nevertheless* *,* *being* *considered* *effeminate* *and* *a* *man* *who* *allowed* *himself* *to* *be* *governed* *by* *his* *mother* *,* *he* *became* *despised* *,* *the* *army* *conspired* *against* *him* *,* *and* *murdered* *him* *.*
*After* *this* *there* *remained* *for* *Severus* *,* *who* *wished* *to* *make* *himself* *master* *of* *the* *whole* *empire* *,* *two* *difficulties* *;* *one* *in* *Asia* *,* *where* *Niger* *,* *head* *of* *the* *Asiatic* *army* *,* *had* *caused* *himself* *to* *be* *proclaimed* *emperor* *;* *the* *other* *in* *the* *west* *where* *Albinus* *was* *,* *who* *also* *aspired* *to* *the* *throne* *.*
*And* *as* *he* *considered* *it* *dangerous* *to* *declare* *himself* *hostile* *to* *both* *,* *he* *decided* *to* *attack* *Niger* *and* *to* *deceive* *Albinus* *.*
*But* *let* *us* *come* *to* *Commodus* *,* *to* *whom* *it* *should* *have* *been* *very* *easy* *to* *hold* *the* *empire* *,* *for* *,* *being* *the* *son* *of* *Marcus* *,* *he* *had* *inherited* *it* *,* *and* *he* *had* *only* *to* *follow* *in* *the* *footsteps* *of* *his* *father* *to* *please* *his* *people* *and* *soldiers* *;* *but* *,* *being* *by* *nature* *cruel* *and* *brutal* *,* *he* *gave* *himself* *up* *to* *amusing* *the* *soldiers* *and* *corrupting* *them* *,* *so* *that* *he* *might* *indulge* *his* *rapacity* *upon* *the* *people* *;* *on* *the* *other* *hand* *,* *not* *maintaining* *his* *dignity* *,* *often* *descending* *to* *the* *theatre* *to* *compete* *with* *gladiators* *,* *and* *doing* *other* *vile* *things* *,* *little* *worthy* *of* *the* *imperial* *majesty* *,* *he* *fell* *into* *contempt* *with* *the* *soldiers* *,* *and* *being* *hated* *by* *one* *party* *and* *despised* *by* *the* *other* *,* *he* *was* *conspired* *against* *and* *was* *killed* *.*
*1* *.* *Some* *princes* *,* *so* *as* *to* *hold* *securely* *the* *state* *,* *have* *disarmed* *their* *subjects* *;* *others* *have* *kept* *their* *subject* *towns* *distracted* *by* *factions* *;* *others* *have* *fostered* *enmities* *against* *themselves* *;* *others* *have* *laid* *themselves* *out* *to* *gain* *over* *those* *whom* *they* *distrusted* *in* *the* *beginning* *of* *their* *governments* *;* *some* *have* *built* *fortresses* *;* *some* *have* *overthrown* *and* *destroyed* *them* *.*
*But* *on* *this* *question* *one* *can* *not* *speak* *generally* *,* *for* *it* *varies* *so* *much* *with* *the* *individual* *;* *I* *will* *only* *say* *this* *,* *that* *those* *men* *who* *at* *the* *commencement* *of* *a* *princedom* *have* *been* *hostile* *,* *if* *they* *are* *of* *a* *description* *to* *need* *assistance* *to* *support* *themselves* *,* *can* *always* *be* *gained* *over* *with* *the* *greatest* *ease* *,* *and* *they* *will* *be* *tightly* *held* *to* *serve* *the* *prince* *with* *fidelity* *,* *inasmuch* *as* *they* *know* *it* *to* *be* *very* *necessary* *for* *them* *to* *cancel* *by* *deeds* *the* *bad* *impression* *which* *he* *had* *formed* *of* *them* *;* *and* *thus* *the* *prince* *always* *extracts* *more* *profit* *from* *them* *than* *from* *those* *who* *,* *serving* *him* *in* *too* *much* *security* *,* *may* *neglect* *his* *affairs* *.*
*CHAPTER* *XXI* *-* *HOW* *A* *PRINCE* *SHOULD* *CONDUCT* *HIMSELF* *SO* *AS* *TO* *GAIN* *RENOWN*
*Further* *,* *always* *using* *religion* *as* *a* *plea* *,* *so* *as* *to* *undertake* *greater* *schemes* *,* *he* *devoted* *himself* *with* *pious* *cruelty* *to* *driving* *out* *and* *clearing* *his* *kingdom* *of* *the* *Moors* *;* *nor* *could* *there* *be* *a* *more* *admirable* *example* *,* *nor* *one* *more* *rare* *.*
*A* *prince* *is* *also* *respected* *when* *he* *is* *either* *a* *true* *friend* *or* *a* *downright* *enemy* *,* *that* *is* *to* *say* *,* *when* *,* *without* *any* *reservation* *,* *he* *declares* *himself* *in* *favour* *of* *one* *party* *against* *the* *other* *;* *which* *course* *will* *always* *be* *more* *advantageous* *than* *standing* *neutral* *;* *because* *if* *two* *of* *your* *powerful* *neighbours* *come* *to* *blows* *,* *they* *are* *of* *such* *a* *character* *that* *,* *if* *one* *of* *them* *conquers* *,* *you* *have* *either* *to* *fear* *him* *or* *not* *.*
*In* *either* *case* *it* *will* *always* *be* *more* *advantageous* *for* *you* *to* *declare* *yourself* *and* *to* *make* *war* *strenuously* *;* *because* *,* *in* *the* *first* *case* *,* *if* *you* *do* *not* *declare* *yourself* *,* *you* *will* *invariably* *fall* *a* *prey* *to* *the* *conqueror* *,* *to* *the* *pleasure* *and* *satisfaction* *of* *him* *who* *has* *been* *conquered* *,* *and* *you* *will* *have* *no* *reasons* *to* *offer* *,* *nor* *anything* *to* *protect* *or* *to* *shelter* *you* *.*
*Thus* *it* *will* *always* *happen* *that* *he* *who* *is* *not* *your* *friend* *will* *demand* *your* *neutrality* *,* *whilst* *he* *who* *is* *your* *friend* *will* *entreat* *you* *to* *declare* *yourself* *with* *arms* *.*
*But* *when* *a* *prince* *declares* *himself* *gallantly* *in* *favour* *of* *one* *side* *,* *if* *the* *party* *with* *whom* *he* *allies* *himself* *conquers* *,* *although* *the* *victor* *may* *be* *powerful* *and* *may* *have* *him* *at* *his* *mercy* *,* *yet* *he* *is* *indebted* *to* *him* *,* *and* *there* *is* *established* *a* *bond* *of* *amity* *;* *and* *men* *are* *never* *so* *shameless* *as* *to* *become* *a* *monument* *of* *ingratitude* *by* *oppressing* *you* *.*
*But* *if* *he* *with* *whom* *you* *ally* *yourself* *loses* *,* *you* *may* *be* *sheltered* *by* *him* *,* *and* *whilst* *he* *is* *able* *he* *may* *aid* *you* *,* *and* *you* *become* *companions* *on* *a* *fortune* *that* *may* *rise* *again* *.*
*A* *prince* *ought* *also* *to* *show* *himself* *a* *patron* *of* *ability* *,* *and* *to* *honour* *the* *proficient* *in* *every* *art* *.*
*Further* *,* *he* *ought* *to* *entertain* *the* *people* *with* *festivals* *and* *spectacles* *at* *convenient* *seasons* *of* *the* *year* *;* *and* *as* *every* *city* *is* *divided* *into* *guilds* *or* *into* *societies* *,* *he* *ought* *to* *hold* *such* *bodies* *in* *esteem* *,* *and* *associate* *with* *them* *sometimes* *,* *and* *show* *himself* *an* *example* *of* *courtesy* *and* *liberality* *;* *nevertheless* *,* *always* *maintaining* *the* *majesty* *of* *his* *rank* *,* *for* *this* *he* *must* *never* *consent* *to* *abate* *in* *anything* *.*
*It* *is* *that* *of* *flatterers* *,* *of* *whom* *courts* *are* *full* *,* *because* *men* *are* *so* *self-complacent* *in* *their* *own* *affairs* *,* *and* *in* *a* *way* *so* *deceived* *in* *them* *,* *that* *they* *are* *preserved* *with* *difficulty* *from* *this* *pest* *,* *and* *if* *they* *wish* *to* *defend* *themselves* *they* *run* *the* *danger* *of* *falling* *into* *contempt* *.*
*With* *these* *councillors* *,* *separately* *and* *collectively* *,* *he* *ought* *to* *carry* *himself* *in* *such* *a* *way* *that* *each* *of* *them* *should* *know* *that* *,* *the* *more* *freely* *he* *shall* *speak* *,* *the* *more* *he* *shall* *be* *preferred* *;* *outside* *of* *these* *,* *he* *should* *listen* *to* *no* *one* *,* *pursue* *the* *thing* *resolved* *on* *,* *and* *be* *steadfast* *in* *his* *resolutions* *.*
*Therefore* *,* *do* *not* *let* *our* *princes* *accuse* *fortune* *for* *the* *loss* *of* *their* *principalities* *after* *so* *many* *years* *'* *possession* *,* *but* *rather* *their* *own* *sloth* *,* *because* *in* *quiet* *times* *they* *never* *thought* *there* *could* *be* *a* *change* *(* *it* *is* *a* *common* *defect* *in* *man* *not* *to* *make* *any* *provision* *in* *the* *calm* *against* *the* *tempest* *)* *,* *and* *when* *afterwards* *the* *bad* *times* *came* *they* *thought* *of* *flight* *and* *not* *of* *defending* *themselves* *,* *and* *they* *hoped* *that* *the* *people* *,* *disgusted* *with* *the* *insolence* *of* *the* *conquerors* *,* *would* *recall* *them* *.*
*But* *confining* *myself* *more* *to* *the* *particular* *,* *I* *say* *that* *a* *prince* *may* *be* *seen* *happy* *to-day* *and* *ruined* *to-morrow* *without* *having* *shown* *any* *change* *of* *disposition* *or* *character* *.*
*Changes* *in* *estate* *also* *issue* *from* *this* *,* *for* *if* *,* *to* *one* *who* *governs* *himself* *with* *caution* *and* *patience* *,* *times* *and* *affairs* *converge* *in* *such* *a* *way* *that* *his* *administration* *is* *successful* *,* *his* *fortune* *is* *made* *;* *but* *if* *times* *and* *affairs* *change* *,* *he* *is* *ruined* *if* *he* *does* *not* *change* *his* *course* *of* *action* *.*
*But* *a* *man* *is* *not* *often* *found* *sufficiently* *circumspect* *to* *know* *how* *to* *accommodate* *himself* *to* *the* *change* *,* *both* *because* *he* *can* *not* *deviate* *from* *what* *nature* *inclines* *him* *to* *do* *,* *and* *also* *because* *,* *having* *always* *prospered* *by* *acting* *in* *one* *way* *,* *he* *can* *not* *be* *persuaded* *that* *it* *is* *well* *to* *leave* *it* *;* *and* *,* *therefore* *,* *the* *cautious* *man* *,* *when* *it* *is* *time* *to* *turn* *adventurous* *,* *does* *not* *know* *how* *to* *do* *it* *,* *hence* *he* *is* *ruined* *;* *but* *had* *he* *changed* *his* *conduct* *with* *the* *times* *fortune* *would* *not* *have* *changed* *.*
*For* *my* *part* *I* *consider* *that* *it* *is* *better* *to* *be* *adventurous* *than* *cautious* *,* *because* *fortune* *is* *a* *woman* *,* *and* *if* *you* *wish* *to* *keep* *her* *under* *it* *is* *necessary* *to* *beat* *and* *ill-use* *her* *;* *and* *it* *is* *seen* *that* *she* *allows* *herself* *to* *be* *mastered* *by* *the* *adventurous* *rather* *than* *by* *those* *who* *go* *to* *work* *more* *coldly* *.*
*And* *although* *singly* *they* *are* *good* *,* *altogether* *they* *will* *be* *much* *better* *when* *they* *find* *themselves* *commanded* *by* *their* *prince* *,* *honoured* *by* *him* *,* *and* *maintained* *at* *his* *expense* *.*
*DURING* *the* *whole* *of* *a* *dull* *,* *dark* *,* *and* *soundless* *day* *in* *the* *autumn* *of* *the* *year* *,* *when* *the* *clouds* *hung* *oppressively* *low* *in* *the* *heavens* *,* *I* *had* *been* *passing* *alone* *,* *on* *horseback* *,* *through* *a* *singularly* *dreary* *tract* *of* *country* *,* *and* *at* *length* *found* *myself* *,* *as* *the* *shades* *of* *the* *evening* *drew* *on* *,* *within* *view* *of* *the* *melancholy* *House* *of* *Usher* *.*
*I* *was* *aware* *,* *however* *,* *that* *his* *very* *ancient* *family* *had* *been* *noted* *,* *time* *out* *of* *mind* *,* *for* *a* *peculiar* *sensibility* *of* *temperament* *,* *displaying* *itself* *,* *through* *long* *ages* *,* *in* *many* *works* *of* *exalted* *art* *,* *and* *manifested* *,* *of* *late* *,* *in* *repeated* *deeds* *of* *munificent* *yet* *unobtrusive* *charity* *,* *as* *well* *as* *in* *a* *passionate* *devotion* *to* *the* *intricacies* *,* *perhaps* *even* *more* *than* *to* *the* *orthodox* *and* *easily* *recognizable* *beauties* *,* *of* *musical* *science* *.*
*There* *can* *be* *no* *doubt* *that* *the* *consciousness* *of* *the* *rapid* *increase* *of* *my* *superstition* *-* *for* *why* *should* *I* *not* *so* *term* *it* *?* *-* *served* *mainly* *to* *accelerate* *the* *increase* *itself* *.*
*The* *room* *in* *which* *I* *found* *myself* *was* *very* *large* *and* *lofty* *.*
*It* *was* *with* *difficulty* *that* *I* *could* *bring* *myself* *to* *admit* *the* *identity* *of* *the* *wan* *being* *before* *me* *with* *the* *companion* *of* *my* *early* *boyhood* *.*
*It* *displayed* *itself* *in* *a* *host* *of* *unnatural* *sensations* *.*
*Hitherto* *she* *had* *steadily* *borne* *up* *against* *the* *pressure* *of* *her* *malady* *,* *and* *had* *not* *betaken* *herself* *finally* *to* *bed* *;* *but* *on* *the* *closing* *in* *of* *the* *evening* *of* *my* *arrival* *at* *the* *house* *,* *she* *succumbed* *(* *as* *her* *brother* *told* *me* *at* *night* *with* *inexpressible* *agitation* *)* *to* *the* *prostrating* *power* *of* *the* *destroyer* *;* *and* *I* *learned* *that* *the* *glimpse* *I* *had* *obtained* *of* *her* *person* *would* *thus* *probably* *be* *the* *last* *I* *should* *obtain* *-* *that* *the* *lady* *,* *at* *least* *while* *living* *,* *would* *be* *seen* *by* *me* *no* *more* *.*
*It* *was* *,* *perhaps* *,* *the* *narrow* *limits* *to* *which* *he* *thus* *confined* *himself* *upon* *the* *guitar* *which* *gave* *birth* *,* *in* *great* *measure* *,* *to* *the* *fantastic* *character* *of* *the* *performances* *.*
*They* *must* *have* *been* *,* *and* *were* *,* *in* *the* *notes* *,* *as* *well* *as* *in* *the* *words* *of* *his* *wild* *fantasias* *(* *for* *he* *not* *unfrequently* *accompanied* *himself* *with* *rhymed* *verbal* *improvisations* *)* *,* *the* *result* *of* *that* *intense* *mental* *collectedness* *and* *concentration* *to* *which* *I* *have* *previously* *alluded* *as* *observable* *only* *in* *particular* *moments* *of* *the* *highest* *artificial* *excitement* *.*
*Shaking* *this* *off* *with* *a* *gasp* *and* *a* *struggle* *,* *I* *uplifted* *myself* *upon* *the* *pillows* *,* *and* *,* *peering* *earnestly* *within* *the* *intense* *darkness* *of* *the* *chamber* *,* *hearkened* *-* *I* *know* *not* *why* *,* *except* *that* *an* *instinctive* *spirit* *prompted* *me* *-* *to* *certain* *low* *and* *indefinite* *sounds* *which* *came* *,* *through* *the* *pauses* *of* *the* *storm* *,* *at* *long* *intervals* *,* *I* *knew* *not* *whence* *.*
*Overpowered* *by* *an* *intense* *sentiment* *of* *horror* *,* *unaccountable* *yet* *unendurable* *,* *I* *threw* *on* *my* *clothes* *with* *haste* *(* *for* *I* *felt* *that* *I* *should* *sleep* *no* *more* *during* *the* *night* *)* *,* *and* *endeavored* *to* *arouse* *myself* *from* *the* *pitiable* *condition* *into* *which* *I* *had* *fallen* *,* *by* *pacing* *rapidly* *to* *and* *fro* *through* *the* *apartment* *.*
*Could* *I* *have* *judged* *,* *indeed* *,* *by* *the* *wild* *overstrained* *air* *of* *vivacity* *with* *which* *he* *hearkened* *,* *or* *apparently* *hearkened* *,* *to* *the* *words* *of* *the* *tale* *,* *I* *might* *well* *have* *congratulated* *myself* *upon* *the* *success* *of* *my* *design* *.*
*``* *And* *now* *,* *the* *champion* *,* *having* *escaped* *from* *the* *terrible* *fury* *of* *the* *dragon* *,* *bethinking* *himself* *of* *the* *brazen* *shield* *,* *and* *of* *the* *breaking* *up* *of* *the* *enchantment* *which* *was* *upon* *it* *,* *removed* *the* *carcass* *from* *out* *of* *the* *way* *before* *him* *,* *and* *approached* *valorously* *over* *the* *silver* *pavement* *of* *the* *castle* *to* *where* *the* *shield* *was* *upon* *the* *wall* *;* *which* *in* *sooth* *tarried* *not* *for* *his* *full* *coming* *,* *but* *fell* *down* *at* *his* *feet* *upon* *the* *silver* *floor* *,* *with* *a* *mighty* *great* *and* *terrible* *ringing* *sound* *.* *''*
*The* *storm* *was* *still* *abroad* *in* *all* *its* *wrath* *as* *I* *found* *myself* *crossing* *the* *old* *causeway* *.*
*He* *could* *not* *forgive* *himself* *for* *that* *silly* *smile* *.*
*What* *can* *I* *do* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *in* *despair* *,* *and* *could* *find* *no* *answer* *.*
*He* *was* *incapable* *of* *self-deception* *and* *could* *not* *persuade* *himself* *that* *he* *repented* *of* *his* *conduct* *.*
*'* *Never* *mind* *,* *sir* *-* *things* *will* *shape* *themselves* *.* *'*
*'* *Shape* *themselves* *,* *eh* *?* *'*
*'* *To* *go* *,* *or* *not* *to* *go* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *;* *and* *his* *inner* *consciousness* *answered* *that* *he* *ought* *not* *to* *go* *:* *that* *it* *could* *only* *result* *in* *hypocrisy* *;* *that* *it* *was* *impossible* *to* *restore* *their* *relations* *because* *it* *was* *impossible* *to* *render* *her* *attractive* *and* *capable* *of* *exciting* *love* *,* *or* *to* *turn* *him* *into* *an* *old* *man* *incapable* *of* *love* *.*
*'* *Nevertheless* *it* *will* *have* *to* *be* *done* *sooner* *or* *later* *.* *After* *all* *,* *things* *ca* *n't* *remain* *as* *they* *are* *,* *'* *he* *said* *,* *trying* *to* *brace* *himself* *.*
*She* *was* *trying* *to* *do* *what* *she* *had* *attempted* *ten* *times* *already* *during* *those* *three* *days* *,* *to* *sort* *out* *her* *own* *and* *her* *children* *'s* *clothes* *to* *take* *to* *her* *mother* *'s* *;* *but* *she* *could* *not* *bring* *herself* *to* *do* *it* *,* *and* *said* *again* *as* *she* *had* *done* *after* *each* *previous* *attempt* *,* *that* *things* *could* *not* *remain* *as* *they* *were* *-* *that* *she* *must* *do* *something* *to* *punish* *and* *humiliate* *him* *,* *and* *to* *revenge* *herself* *if* *only* *for* *a* *small* *part* *of* *the* *pain* *he* *had* *caused* *her* *.*
*She* *felt* *that* *it* *was* *impossible* *for* *her* *to* *leave* *;* *but* *still* *deceiving* *herself* *,* *she* *went* *an* *sorting* *the* *things* *and* *pretending* *that* *she* *really* *would* *go* *.*
*Oblonsky* *could* *think* *calmly* *of* *his* *wife* *,* *could* *hope* *that* *'* *things* *would* *shape* *themselves* *'* *as* *Matthew* *had* *said* *,* *and* *could* *calmly* *read* *his* *paper* *and* *drink* *his* *coffee* *,* *but* *when* *he* *saw* *her* *worn* *,* *suffering* *face* *,* *and* *heard* *her* *tone* *,* *resigned* *and* *despairing* *,* *he* *felt* *a* *choking* *sensation* *.* *A* *lump* *rose* *to* *his* *throat* *and* *tears* *glistened* *in* *his* *eyes* *.*
*She* *wished* *to* *go* *away* *,* *but* *staggered* *and* *held* *on* *to* *the* *back* *of* *a* *chair* *to* *support* *herself* *.*
*She* *seemed* *to* *be* *trying* *to* *recollect* *herself* *,* *as* *if* *she* *did* *not* *know* *where* *she* *was* *or* *what* *she* *had* *to* *do* *.*
*Oblonsky* *sighed* *,* *wiped* *his* *face* *,* *and* *with* *soft* *steps* *left* *the* *room* *.* *'* *Matthew* *says* *``* *things* *will* *shape* *themselves* *,* *''* *-* *but* *how* *?*
*'* *Well* *,* *perhaps* *things* *will* *shape* *themselves* *-* *``* *shape* *themselves* *''* *!*
*When* *the* *Report* *had* *been* *read* *,* *Oblonsky* *rose* *,* *stretching* *himself* *,* *and* *,* *paying* *tribute* *to* *the* *Liberalism* *of* *the* *times* *,* *took* *out* *a* *cigarette* *before* *leaving* *the* *Office* *to* *go* *to* *his* *private* *room* *.*
*'* *On* *the* *one* *hand* *it* *'s* *simply* *playing* *!* *They* *play* *at* *being* *a* *parliament* *,* *and* *I* *am* *neither* *young* *enough* *nor* *old* *enough* *to* *amuse* *myself* *with* *toys* *.*
*Levin* *'s* *conviction* *that* *it* *was* *impossible* *rested* *on* *the* *idea* *that* *from* *her* *relatives* *'* *point* *of* *view* *he* *was* *not* *a* *good* *or* *suitable* *match* *for* *the* *delightful* *Kitty* *,* *and* *that* *Kitty* *herself* *could* *not* *love* *him* *.*
*Of* *course* *the* *mysterious* *,* *enchanting* *Kitty* *could* *not* *love* *a* *plain* *fellow* *,* *such* *as* *he* *considered* *himself* *to* *be* *,* *a* *man* *so* *ordinary* *and* *undistinguished* *.*
*To* *justify* *himself* *Levin* *began* *to* *relate* *what* *used* *to* *happen* *at* *the* *Meetings* *in* *his* *district* *.*
*'* *We* *Russians* *are* *always* *like* *that* *.* *It* *may* *be* *a* *good* *trait* *in* *us* *-* *this* *capacity* *to* *see* *our* *own* *faults* *-* *but* *we* *overdo* *it* *,* *and* *comfort* *ourselves* *with* *sarcasm* *,* *which* *is* *always* *ready* *on* *our* *tongues* *.*
*Yet* *skaters* *appeared* *quite* *calmly* *to* *gain* *on* *her* *,* *to* *catch* *her* *up* *,* *and* *even* *speak* *to* *her* *,* *and* *quite* *independently* *of* *her* *to* *amuse* *themselves* *enjoying* *the* *excellent* *ice* *and* *the* *fine* *weather* *.*
*He* *stood* *up* *,* *took* *off* *his* *overcoat* *,* *and* *having* *given* *himself* *a* *start* *on* *the* *rough* *ice* *near* *the* *shelter* *,* *glided* *down* *to* *the* *smooth* *surface* *of* *the* *lake* *,* *increasing* *and* *diminishing* *his* *speed* *and* *shaping* *his* *course* *as* *if* *by* *volition* *only* *.*
*'* *I* *do* *n't* *feel* *at* *all* *dull* *,* *I* *am* *very* *busy* *,* *'* *he* *answered* *,* *conscious* *that* *she* *was* *subduing* *him* *to* *her* *quiet* *tone* *,* *from* *which* *-* *as* *had* *happened* *at* *the* *beginning* *of* *the* *winter* *-* *he* *would* *not* *be* *able* *to* *free* *himself* *.*
*'* *Do* *n't* *hurt* *yourself* *-* *it* *needs* *practice* *!* *'*
*Levin* *went* *up* *the* *path* *as* *far* *back* *as* *he* *could* *to* *get* *up* *speed* *,* *and* *then* *slid* *downwards* *,* *balancing* *himself* *with* *his* *arms* *in* *this* *unaccustomed* *movement* *.*
*Levin* *was* *considering* *what* *the* *change* *in* *Kitty* *'s* *face* *meant* *now* *;* *persuading* *himself* *that* *there* *was* *hope* *,* *now* *in* *despair* *,* *seeing* *clearly* *that* *such* *hope* *was* *madness* *;* *but* *yet* *feeling* *an* *altogether* *different* *being* *from* *what* *he* *had* *been* *before* *her* *smile* *and* *the* *words* *'* *Au* *revoir* *!* *'*
*WHEN* *THEY* *ENTERED* *THE* *RESTAURANT* *Levin* *could* *not* *help* *noticing* *something* *peculiar* *in* *his* *friend* *'s* *expression* *,* *a* *kind* *of* *suppressed* *radiance* *in* *his* *face* *and* *whole* *figure* *.* *Oblonsky* *took* *off* *his* *overcoat* *,* *and* *with* *his* *hat* *on* *one* *side* *walked* *into* *the* *dining-room* *,* *giving* *his* *orders* *to* *the* *Tartar* *waiters* *,* *in* *their* *swallow-tail* *coats* *,* *with* *napkins* *under* *their* *arms* *,* *who* *attached* *themselves* *to* *him* *.* *Bowing* *right* *and* *left* *to* *his* *acquaintances* *who* *,* *here* *as* *elsewhere* *,* *greeted* *him* *joyfully* *,* *he* *passed* *on* *to* *the* *buffet* *,* *drank* *a* *glass* *of* *vodka* *and* *ate* *a* *bit* *of* *fish* *as* *hors-d* *'oeuvre* *,* *and* *said* *something* *to* *the* *painted* *Frenchwoman* *,* *bedecked* *with* *ribbons* *and* *lace* *,* *who* *sat* *at* *a* *little* *counter* *-* *something* *that* *made* *even* *this* *Frenchwoman* *burst* *into* *frank* *laughter* *.*
*The* *waiter* *,* *remembering* *Oblonsky* *'s* *way* *of* *calling* *the* *items* *on* *the* *French* *menu* *by* *their* *Russian* *names* *,* *did* *not* *repeat* *the* *words* *after* *him* *,* *but* *afterwards* *allowed* *himself* *the* *pleasure* *of* *repeating* *the* *whole* *of* *the* *order* *according* *to* *the* *menu* *:* *'* *Potage* *printanier* *,* *turbot* *,* *sauce* *Beaumarchais* *,* *boeuf* *,* *poularde* ** *l* *'estragon* *,* *macdoine* *de* *fruits* *...* *'* *and* *immediately* *,* *as* *if* *moved* *by* *springs* *,* *he* *put* *down* *the* *bill* *of* *fare* *in* *one* *cardboard* *cover* *,* *and* *seizing* *another* *containing* *the* *wine-list* *held* *it* *out* *to* *Oblonsky* *.*
*'* *I* *ca* *n't* *help* *it* *,* *'* *replied* *Levin* *.* *'* *Put* *yourself* *in* *my* *place* *-* *look* *at* *it* *from* *a* *country* *fellow* *'s* *point* *of* *view* *!*
*Levin* *obediently* *helped* *himself* *to* *sauce* *,* *but* *would* *not* *let* *Oblonsky* *eat* *.*
*That* *is* *disgusting* *,* *and* *therefore* *one* *ca* *n't* *help* *feeling* *oneself* *unworthy* *.* *'*
*Not* *only* *were* *nearly* *all* *the* *youths* *that* *danced* *at* *the* *Moscow* *balls* *in* *love* *with* *Kitty* *,* *but* *two* *serious* *suitors* *presented* *themselves* *for* *her* *that* *very* *first* *winter* *:* *Levin* *and* *,* *immediately* *after* *his* *departure* *,* *Count* *Vronsky* *.*
*The* *Russian* *way* *,* *of* *employing* *a* *professional* *match-maker* *,* *was* *considered* *monstrous* *,* *and* *was* *laughed* *at* *by* *everybody* *,* *including* *the* *Princess* *herself* *.*
*And* *now* *she* *was* *afraid* *that* *Vronsky* *might* *content* *himself* *with* *merely* *flirting* *with* *her* *daughter* *.*
*She* *saw* *that* *Kitty* *was* *in* *love* *with* *him* *,* *but* *consoled* *herself* *with* *the* *thought* *that* *Vronsky* *was* *an* *honest* *man* *and* *therefore* *would* *not* *act* *in* *such* *a* *way* *.*
*With* *her* *thought* *of* *Vronsky* *was* *mingled* *some* *uneasiness* *,* *though* *he* *was* *an* *extremely* *well-bred* *and* *quiet-mannered* *man* *;* *a* *sense* *of* *something* *false* *,* *not* *in* *him* *,* *for* *he* *was* *very* *simple* *and* *kindly* *,* *but* *in* *herself* *;* *whereas* *in* *relation* *to* *Levin* *she* *felt* *herself* *quite* *simple* *and* *clear* *.*
*And* *now* *for* *the* *first* *time* *the* *matter* *presented* *itself* *to* *her* *in* *a* *different* *and* *entirely* *new* *light* *.*
*Only* *now* *did* *she* *realize* *that* *this* *matter* *(* *with* *whom* *she* *would* *be* *happy* *,* *who* *was* *the* *man* *she* *loved* *)* *did* *not* *concern* *herself* *alone* *,* *but* *that* *in* *a* *moment* *she* *would* *have* *to* *wound* *a* *man* *she* *cared* *for* *,* *and* *to* *wound* *him* *cruelly* *...*
*She* *was* *fond* *of* *Kitty* *,* *and* *her* *affection* *showed* *itself* *as* *the* *affection* *of* *a* *married* *woman* *for* *an* *unmarried* *one* *generally* *does* *,* *in* *a* *desire* *to* *get* *Kitty* *married* *according* *to* *her* *-* *the* *Countess* *'s* *-* *own* *ideal* *of* *conjugal* *bliss* *;* *and* *she* *wished* *to* *see* *her* *married* *to* *Vronsky* *.*
*Ah* *the* *ball* *!* *"* *-* *'* *And* *the* *Prince* *imagining* *himself* *to* *be* *impersonating* *his* *wife* *curtsied* *at* *each* *word* *.* *'* *And* *then* *if* *we* *really* *ruin* *Kitty* *'s* *happiness* *,* *if* *she* *really* *gets* *it* *into* *her* *head* *...* *'*
*I* *can* *recognize* *a* *man* *who* *has* *serious* *intentions* *-* *such* *as* *Levin* *-* *and* *I* *can* *see* *through* *a* *weathercock* *like* *that* *popinjay* *who* *only* *wishes* *to* *amuse* *himself* *.* *'*
*Marriage* *had* *never* *presented* *itself* *to* *him* *as* *a* *possibility* *.*
*I* *feel* *myself* *better* *and* *purer* *,* *I* *feel* *I* *have* *a* *heart* *and* *that* *there* *is* *much* *that* *is* *good* *in* *me* *.*
*He* *is* *a* *very* *nervous* *man* *,* *and* *does* *make* *himself* *unpleasant* *sometimes* *,* *that* *'s* *true* *enough* *;* *but* *on* *the* *other* *hand* *he* *is* *sometimes* *very* *charming* *.*
*His* *chest* *involuntarily* *expanded* *and* *his* *eyes* *shone* *,* *he* *felt* *himself* *to* *be* *a* *conqueror* *.*
*In* *the* *depths* *of* *his* *heart* *he* *did* *not* *respect* *his* *mother* *and* *(* *though* *this* *he* *never* *acknowledged* *to* *himself* *)* *did* *not* *love* *her* *,* *but* *in* *accordance* *with* *the* *views* *of* *the* *set* *he* *lived* *in* *,* *and* *as* *a* *result* *of* *his* *education* *,* *he* *could* *not* *imagine* *himself* *treating* *her* *in* *any* *way* *but* *one* *altogether* *submissive* *and* *respectful* *;* *the* *more* *submissive* *and* *respectful* *he* *was* *externally* *,* *the* *less* *he* *honoured* *and* *loved* *her* *in* *his* *heart* *.*
*It* *was* *as* *if* *an* *excess* *of* *vitality* *so* *filled* *her* *whole* *being* *that* *it* *betrayed* *itself* *against* *her* *will* *,* *now* *in* *her* *smile* *,* *now* *in* *the* *light* *of* *her* *eyes* *.*
*'* *Oh* *yes* *,* *I* *should* *have* *recognized* *you* *,* *especially* *as* *I* *believe* *your* *mother* *and* *I* *have* *talked* *of* *nothing* *but* *you* *all* *the* *way* *,* *'* *said* *she* *,* *at* *last* *allowing* *the* *animation* *she* *had* *been* *trying* *to* *suppress* *to* *reveal* *itself* *in* *a* *smile* *.* *'* *But* *my* *brother* *is* *not* *here* *yet* *.* *'*
*Thrown* *himself* *under* *...* *Run* *over* *...* *'* *shouted* *the* *passers-by* *.*
*She* *threw* *herself* *on* *the* *body* *.* *They* *say* *he* *was* *the* *sole* *support* *of* *a* *very* *large* *family* *.*
*I* *know* *they* *say* *husbands* *tell* *their* *wives* *how* *they* *have* *lived* *,* *but* *Steve* *...* *'* *She* *corrected* *herself* *.*
*'* *Dolly* *dearest* *!* *I* *understand* *,* *but* *do* *n't* *torture* *yourself* *.*
*'* *All* *I* *can* *say* *is* *,* *'* *began* *Anna* *,* *'* *I* *am* *his* *sister* *and* *I* *know* *his* *character* *,* *his* *capacity* *for* *forgetting* *everything* *,* *'* *she* *made* *a* *gesture* *with* *her* *hand* *in* *front* *of* *her* *forehead* *,* *'* *that* *capacity* *for* *letting* *himself* *be* *completely* *carried* *away* *,* *but* *on* *the* *other* *hand* *for* *completely* *repenting* *.*
*'* *Well* *,* *of* *course* *...* *'* *Dolly* *put* *in* *quickly* *as* *if* *saying* *what* *she* *had* *often* *herself* *thought* *,* *'* *or* *else* *it* *would* *not* *be* *forgiveness* *.*
*'* *Well* *,* *then* *,* *if* *I* *have* *to* *go* *,* *I* *shall* *console* *myself* *with* *the* *reflection* *that* *it* *will* *give* *you* *pleasure* *...* *Grisha* *,* *please* *do* *n't* *pull* *so* *hard* *,* *it* *is* *all* *in* *a* *tangle* *already* *,* *'* *she* *said* *,* *arranging* *a* *loose* *lock* *of* *hair* *with* *which* *Grisha* *was* *playing* *.*
*There* *'s* *Miss* *Hull* *calling* *you* *to* *tea* *,* *'* *she* *went* *on* *,* *disengaging* *herself* *from* *the* *children* *and* *dispatching* *them* *to* *the* *dining-room* *.*
*For* *toward* *ten* *o* *'clock* *-* *the* *time* *when* *she* *generally* *said* *good-night* *to* *her* *son* *and* *often* *put* *him* *to* *bed* *herself* *before* *going* *to* *a* *ball* *-* *she* *felt* *sad* *at* *being* *so* *far* *from* *him* *,* *and* *,* *whatever* *they* *talked* *about* *,* *her* *thoughts* *kept* *returning* *to* *her* *curly-headed* *Serezha* *.*
*She* *was* *not* *a* *girl* *just* *come* *out* *,* *for* *whom* *all* *faces* *at* *a* *ball* *blend* *into* *one* *fairy-like* *vision* *;* *nor* *was* *she* *a* *girl* *who* *had* *been* *dragged* *from* *ball* *to* *ball* *till* *all* *the* *faces* *were* *familiar* *to* *dullness* *.* *She* *was* *between* *those* *two* *extremes* *,* *and* *though* *elated* *was* *able* *to* *control* *herself* *sufficiently* *to* *be* *observant* *.*
*She* *noticed* *that* *Anna* *was* *elated* *with* *success* *,* *a* *feeling* *Kitty* *herself* *knew* *so* *well* *.*
*Every* *time* *he* *turned* *toward* *Anna* *he* *slightly* *bowed* *his* *head* *as* *if* *he* *wished* *to* *fall* *down* *before* *her* *,* *and* *in* *his* *eyes* *there* *was* *an* *expression* *of* *submission* *and* *fear* *.* *'* *I* *do* *not* *wish* *to* *offend* *,* *'* *his* *every* *look* *seemed* *to* *say* *,* *'* *I* *only* *wish* *to* *save* *myself* *,* *but* *I* *do* *not* *know* *how* *.* *'*
*And* *,* *strange* *to* *say* *,* *though* *they* *were* *talking* *about* *Ivan* *Ivanich* *,* *who* *made* *himself* *so* *ridiculous* *with* *his* *French* *,* *and* *how* *Miss* *Eletskaya* *could* *have* *made* *a* *better* *match* *,* *yet* *these* *words* *were* *important* *for* *them* *and* *they* *felt* *this* *as* *well* *as* *Kitty* *.*
*She* *felt* *herself* *quite* *broken-hearted* *.*
*'* *Oh* *!* *it* *'s* *all* *the* *same* *to* *me* *!* *'* *replied* *Kitty* *.* *No* *one* *but* *herself* *understood* *her* *situation* *,* *because* *no* *one* *knew* *that* *she* *had* *only* *a* *few* *days* *ago* *refused* *a* *man* *whom* *she* *perhaps* *loved* *,* *and* *refused* *him* *because* *she* *trusted* *another* *.*
*She* *felt* *herself* *crushed* *and* *her* *face* *expressed* *it* *.*
*If* *I* *had* *any* *pride* *,* *I* *should* *not* *have* *put* *myself* *into* *such* *a* *position* *.* *'* *And* *he* *pictured* *to* *himself* *Vronsky* *,* *happy* *,* *kind* *,* *clever* *,* *calm* *,* *and* *certainly* *never* *placing* *himself* *in* *such* *a* *terrible* *position* *as* *he* *,* *Levin* *,* *had* *been* *in* *that* *evening* *.*
*He* *recalled* *how* *despite* *the* *ridicule* *of* *his* *fellow-students* *his* *brother* *had* *lived* *like* *a* *monk* *while* *at* *the* *University* *and* *for* *a* *year* *after* *,* *strictly* *observing* *all* *the* *religious* *rites* *,* *attending* *service* *,* *fasting* *,* *avoiding* *all* *pleasures* *and* *especially* *women* *;* *and* *then* *how* *he* *suddenly* *broke* *loose* *,* *became* *intimate* *with* *the* *vilest* *people* *and* *gave* *himself* *up* *to* *unbridled* *debauchery* *.*
*He* *kept* *glancing* *at* *his* *brother* *'s* *sickly* *,* *consumptive* *face* *,* *and* *felt* *more* *and* *more* *sorry* *for* *him* *,* *nor* *could* *he* *force* *himself* *to* *pay* *attention* *to* *what* *Nicholas* *was* *telling* *him* *about* *the* *Association* *.*
*All* *the* *profits* *on* *their* *labour* *,* *by* *which* *they* *might* *better* *their* *condition* *,* *give* *themselves* *some* *leisure* *,* *and* *consequently* *gain* *some* *education* *,* *all* *this* *surplus* *value* *is* *taken* *away* *by* *the* *capitalists* *.*
*And* *our* *society* *has* *so* *shaped* *itself* *that* *the* *more* *the* *people* *work* *the* *richer* *the* *merchants* *and* *landowners* *will* *become* *,* *while* *the* *people* *will* *remain* *beasts* *of* *burden* *for* *ever* *.*
*Tell* *me* *what* *you* *are* *doing* *,* *'* *he* *continued* *,* *greedily* *chewing* *a* *crust* *of* *bread* *and* *filling* *himself* *another* *glass* *.* *'* *How* *are* *you* *getting* *on* *?* *'*
*He* *felt* *this* *at* *the* *mere* *sight* *of* *Ignat* *and* *the* *horses* *;* *but* *when* *he* *had* *put* *on* *the* *sheepskin* *coat* *that* *had* *been* *brought* *for* *him* *and* *,* *well* *wrapped* *up* *,* *had* *seated* *himself* *in* *the* *sledge* *and* *started* *homeward* *,* *turning* *over* *in* *his* *mind* *the* *orders* *he* *would* *give* *about* *the* *work* *on* *the* *estate* *,* *and* *as* *he* *watched* *the* *side* *horse* *(* *once* *a* *saddle-horse* *that* *had* *been* *overridden* *,* *a* *spirited* *animal* *from* *the* *Don* *)* *,* *he* *saw* *what* *had* *befallen* *him* *in* *quite* *a* *different* *light* *.*
*Secondly* *,* *he* *would* *never* *again* *allow* *himself* *to* *be* *carried* *away* *by* *passion* *,* *the* *repulsive* *memory* *of* *which* *had* *so* *tormented* *him* *when* *he* *was* *making* *up* *his* *mind* *to* *propose* *.*
*Then* *,* *remembering* *his* *brother* *Nicholas* *,* *he* *determined* *that* *he* *would* *never* *allow* *himself* *to* *forget* *him* *again* *,* *but* *would* *watch* *over* *him* *,* *keep* *him* *in* *sight* *,* *and* *be* *ready* *to* *help* *when* *things* *went* *hard* *with* *him* *.*
*He* *considered* *an* *entire* *change* *of* *economic* *conditions* *nonsense* *;* *but* *he* *had* *always* *felt* *the* *injustice* *of* *his* *superfluities* *compared* *with* *the* *peasant* *'s* *poverty* *,* *and* *now* *decided* *,* *in* *order* *to* *feel* *himself* *quite* *justified* *,* *that* *though* *he* *had* *always* *worked* *hard* *and* *lived* *simply* *,* *he* *would* *in* *future* *work* *still* *more* *and* *allow* *himself* *still* *less* *luxury* *.*
*Laska* *,* *a* *setter* *bitch* *,* *ran* *out* *too* *,* *almost* *throwing* *Kuzma* *off* *his* *feet* *,* *and* *whined* *and* *rubbed* *herself* *against* *Levin* *'s* *knees* *,* *jumping* *up* *and* *wishing* *but* *not* *daring* *to* *put* *her* *front* *paws* *on* *his* *chest* *.*
*And* *obeying* *the* *latter* *voice* *he* *went* *to* *the* *corner* *where* *two* *thirty-six* *pound* *dumb-bells* *lay* *and* *began* *doing* *gymnastic* *exercises* *with* *them* *to* *invigorate* *himself* *.*
*He* *felt* *that* *in* *the* *depth* *of* *his* *soul* *something* *was* *settling* *down* *,* *adjusting* *and* *composing* *itself* *.*
*He* *patted* *her* *a* *little* *,* *and* *she* *curled* *herself* *up* *at* *his* *feet* *with* *her* *head* *on* *her* *outstretched* *hind* *paw* *.*
*This* *is* *a* *confession* *of* *something* *that* *oppresses* *me* *,* *and* *I* *want* *to* *make* *it* *to* *you* *,* *'* *said* *Anna* *,* *determinedly* *throwing* *herself* *back* *in* *an* *arm-chair* *and* *looking* *straight* *into* *Dolly* *'s* *eyes* *.*
*'* *Oh* *no* *,* *no* *,* *I* *am* *not* *Steve* *,* *'* *she* *said* *frowning* *.* *'* *The* *reason* *I* *have* *told* *you* *is* *that* *I* *do* *not* *even* *for* *a* *moment* *allow* *myself* *to* *distrust* *myself* *.* *'*
*But* *at* *the* *moment* *when* *she* *uttered* *these* *words* *she* *knew* *they* *were* *untrue* *:* *she* *not* *only* *distrusted* *herself* *but* *was* *agitated* *by* *the* *thought* *of* *Vronsky* *,* *and* *was* *leaving* *sooner* *than* *she* *had* *intended* *only* *that* *she* *might* *not* *meet* *him* *again* *.*
*She* *was* *too* *eager* *to* *live* *herself* *.*
*But* *there* *was* *nothing* *to* *be* *done* *,* *so* *she* *forced* *herself* *to* *read* *,* *while* *her* *little* *hand* *toyed* *with* *the* *smooth* *paper-knife* *.*
*'* *What* *am* *I* *ashamed* *of* *?* *'* *she* *asked* *herself* *with* *indignant* *surprise* *.*
*She* *had* *assured* *herself* *more* *than* *once* *during* *those* *last* *few* *days* *,* *and* *again* *a* *moment* *ago* *,* *that* *Vronsky* *in* *relation* *to* *her* *was* *only* *one* *of* *the* *hundreds* *of* *everlastingly* *identical* *young* *men* *she* *met* *everywhere* *,* *and* *that* *she* *would* *never* *allow* *herself* *to* *give* *him* *a* *thought* *;* *yet* *now* *,* *at* *the* *first* *moment* *of* *seeing* *him* *again* *,* *she* *was* *seized* *by* *a* *feeling* *of* *joyful* *pride* *.*
*He* *felt* *himself* *a* *king* *,* *not* *because* *he* *believed* *that* *he* *had* *made* *an* *impression* *on* *Anna* *-* *he* *did* *not* *yet* *believe* *that* *-* *but* *because* *the* *impression* *she* *had* *made* *on* *him* *filled* *him* *with* *happiness* *and* *pride* *.*
*By* *addressing* *himself* *thus* *to* *his* *wife* *he* *conveyed* *to* *Vronsky* *his* *wish* *to* *be* *alone* *with* *her* *,* *and* *turning* *to* *Vronsky* *he* *touched* *his* *hat* *.*
*'* *You* *insist* *too* *much* *on* *your* *devotion* *,* *for* *me* *to* *value* *it* *greatly* *,* *'* *she* *replied* *in* *the* *same* *playful* *tone* *,* *while* *she* *involuntarily* *listened* *to* *the* *sound* *of* *Vronsky* *'s* *footsteps* *following* *them* *.* *'* *But* *what* *does* *he* *matter* *to* *me* *?* *'* *she* *asked* *herself* *,* *and* *began* *inquiring* *of* *her* *husband* *how* *Serezha* *had* *got* *on* *during* *her* *absence* *.*
*To* *speak* *of* *it* *would* *be* *to* *give* *it* *an* *importance* *that* *does* *not* *belong* *to* *it* *.* *'* *She* *remembered* *how* *she* *had* *once* *told* *her* *husband* *about* *one* *of* *his* *subordinates* *who* *very* *nearly* *made* *her* *a* *declaration* *,* *and* *how* *Karenin* *had* *answered* *that* *every* *woman* *living* *in* *Society* *was* *liable* *to* *such* *things* *,* *but* *that* *he* *had* *full* *confidence* *in* *her* *tact* *and* *would* *never* *degrade* *himself* *and* *her* *by* *being* *jealous* *.*
*Altogether* *,* *when* *,* *after* *her* *visitors* *had* *left* *,* *Anna* *busied* *herself* *with* *her* *toilet* *,* *she* *was* *much* *vexed* *.*
*Completely* *to* *regain* *her* *composure* *,* *she* *went* *to* *the* *nursery* *and* *spent* *the* *evening* *with* *her* *son* *.* *She* *put* *him* *to* *bed* *herself* *,* *made* *the* *sign* *of* *the* *cross* *over* *him* *,* *and* *tucked* *him* *up* *.*
*'* *Here* *you* *are* *at* *last* *!* *'* *she* *said* *,* *holding* *out* *her* *hand* *to* *him* *.* *He* *kissed* *it* *,* *and* *seated* *himself* *beside* *her* *.*
*'* *The* *master* *himself* *!* *Baroness* *,* *some* *coffee* *for* *him* *out* *of* *the* *new* *coffee-pot* *...*
*But* *there* *was* *another* *sort* *of* *people* *:* *the* *real* *people* *to* *which* *all* *his* *set* *belonged* *,* *who* *had* *above* *all* *to* *be* *well-bred* *,* *generous* *,* *bold* *,* *gay* *,* *and* *to* *abandon* *themselves* *unblushingly* *to* *all* *their* *passions* *and* *laugh* *at* *everything* *else* *.*
*'* *Yes* *,* *I* *am* *,* *'* *replied* *Vronsky* *,* *rubbing* *himself* *with* *a* *bath-towel* *.*
*Having* *heard* *all* *the* *news* *,* *Vronsky* *,* *with* *the* *help* *of* *his* *valet* *,* *put* *on* *his* *uniform* *and* *went* *to* *report* *himself* *.*
*'* *But* *you* *know* *in* *these* *cases* *there* *is* *always* *some* *hidden* *moral* *cause* *,* *'* *the* *family* *doctor* *allowed* *himself* *to* *remark* *with* *a* *subtle* *smile* *.*
*But* *she* *did* *not* *want* *to* *pain* *her* *mother* *,* *especially* *as* *her* *mother* *considered* *herself* *to* *blame* *.*
*Such* *a* *discovery* *could* *now* *only* *deprive* *her* *of* *her* *accustomed* *family* *life* *,* *and* *she* *let* *herself* *be* *deceived* *,* *despising* *him* *,* *and* *especially* *herself* *,* *for* *such* *weakness* *.*
*ON* *ENTERING* *KITTY* *'S* *LITTLE* *SNUGGERY* *,* *a* *pretty* *pink* *room* *,* *decorated* *with* *vieux* *saxe* *figures* *-* *as* *fresh* *,* *rosy* *and* *gay* *as* *Kitty* *herself* *had* *been* *two* *months* *before* *,* *Dolly* *remembered* *how* *light-heartedly* *and* *with* *what* *love* *they* *two* *had* *arranged* *that* *room* *the* *year* *before* *.*
*'* *I* *am* *going* *home* *now* *and* *shall* *have* *to* *shut* *myself* *up* *,* *and* *you* *wo* *n't* *be* *able* *to* *come* *to* *me* *,* *'* *said* *Dolly* *,* *sitting* *down* *beside* *her* *sister* *.* *'* *I* *want* *to* *talk* *to* *you* *.* *'*
*Dolly* *knew* *her* *sister* *'s* *habit* *of* *fingering* *something* *when* *she* *was* *heated* *,* *and* *she* *knew* *how* *apt* *Kitty* *was* *to* *forget* *herself* *when* *in* *a* *passion* *and* *to* *say* *much* *that* *was* *unpleasant* *and* *had* *better* *not* *have* *been* *said* *.* *She* *tried* *to* *pacify* *her* *;* *but* *it* *was* *too* *late* *.*
*I* *have* *enough* *pride* *never* *to* *let* *myself* *love* *a* *man* *who* *does* *not* *love* *me* *.* *'*
*And* *the* *sweet* *tear-stained* *face* *hid* *itself* *in* *the* *folds* *of* *Dolly* *'s* *dress* *.*
*Formerly* *to* *go* *anywhere* *in* *a* *ball-dress* *was* *just* *a* *pleasure* *to* *me* *.* *I* *used* *to* *like* *myself* *in* *it* *;* *but* *now* *I* *feel* *ashamed* *and* *uncomfortable* *.*
*She* *met* *him* *most* *frequently* *at* *Betsy* *'s* *,* *who* *was* *a* *Vronsky* *herself* *and* *his* *cousin* *.*
*At* *first* *Anna* *sincerely* *believed* *that* *she* *was* *displeased* *with* *him* *for* *allowing* *himself* *to* *persecute* *her* *;* *but* *soon* *after* *her* *return* *from* *Moscow* *,* *having* *gone* *to* *a* *party* *where* *she* *expected* *to* *meet* *him* *but* *to* *which* *he* *did* *not* *come* *,* *she* *clearly* *realized* *,* *by* *the* *sadness* *that* *overcame* *her* *,* *that* *she* *had* *been* *deceiving* *herself* *and* *that* *his* *persecution* *supplied* *the* *whole* *interest* *of* *her* *life* *.*
*Wenden* *himself* *,* *having* *returned* *from* *his* *office* *and* *hearing* *the* *front-door* *bell* *and* *voices* *,* *went* *out* *,* *saw* *the* *tipsy* *officers* *with* *the* *letter* *,* *and* *hustled* *them* *out* *.*
*She* *had* *scarcely* *time* *to* *go* *to* *her* *dressing-room* *,* *put* *powder* *on* *her* *long* *pale* *face* *and* *rub* *it* *off* *again* *,* *smarten* *herself* *up* *,* *and* *order* *tea* *to* *be* *served* *in* *the* *big* *drawing-room* *,* *before* *one* *carriage* *after* *another* *began* *to* *arrive* *at* *the* *door* *of* *her* *immense* *house* *on* *the* *Great* *Morskaya* *.*
*'* *I* *wonder* *that* *she* *,* *with* *her* *common* *sense* *-* *for* *she* *is* *not* *stupid* *-* *does* *not* *see* *how* *ridiculous* *she* *makes* *herself* *.* *'*
*The* *Princess* *Myagkaya* *did* *not* *understand* *why* *her* *words* *had* *such* *an* *effect* *,* *but* *was* *aware* *that* *they* *did* *and* *availed* *herself* *of* *it* *.*
*'* *But* *I* *do* *n't* *even* *think* *of* *blaming* *her* *!* *'* *Anna* *'s* *friend* *said* *,* *justifying* *herself* *.*
*The* *Princess* *was* *characterizing* *Karenin* *,* *'* *replied* *the* *ambassador* *'s* *wife* *with* *a* *smile* *,* *seating* *herself* *at* *the* *table* *.*
*Anna* *entered* *the* *room* *holding* *herself* *,* *as* *usual* *,* *very* *erect* *,* *and* *without* *changing* *the* *direction* *of* *her* *eyes* *approached* *her* *hostess* *,* *walking* *with* *that* *quick* *,* *firm* *yet* *light* *step* *which* *distinguished* *her* *from* *other* *Society* *women* *.* *She* *shook* *hands* *;* *smilingly* *,* *and* *with* *the* *same* *smile* *looked* *round* *at* *Vronsky* *.*
*'* *Yes* *,* *but* *how* *often* *the* *happiness* *of* *marriages* *founded* *on* *reason* *crumbles* *to* *dust* *because* *the* *very* *passion* *that* *was* *disregarded* *makes* *itself* *felt* *later* *,* *'* *said* *Vronsky* *.*
*He* *saw* *that* *she* *was* *saying* *what* *she* *forced* *herself* *to* *utter* *and* *not* *what* *she* *wished* *to* *say* *.*
*When* *he* *reached* *home* *he* *went* *to* *his* *study* *as* *usual* *,* *seated* *himself* *in* *his* *easy-chair* *,* *and* *opened* *a* *book* *on* *the* *Papacy* *at* *the* *place* *where* *his* *paper-knife* *was* *inserted* *.* *He* *read* *till* *one* *o* *'clock* *as* *was* *his* *wont* *,* *only* *now* *and* *then* *rubbing* *his* *high* *forehead* *and* *jerking* *his* *head* *as* *if* *driving* *something* *away* *.*
*Why* *he* *should* *have* *confidence* *-* *that* *is* *,* *a* *full* *conviction* *that* *his* *young* *wife* *would* *always* *love* *him* *-* *he* *never* *asked* *himself* *;* *but* *he* *felt* *no* *distrust* *,* *and* *therefore* *had* *confidence* *,* *and* *assured* *himself* *that* *it* *was* *right* *to* *have* *it* *.*
*Karenin* *was* *being* *confronted* *with* *life* *-* *with* *the* *possibility* *of* *his* *wife* *'s* *loving* *somebody* *else* *,* *and* *this* *seemed* *stupid* *and* *incomprehensible* *to* *him* *,* *because* *it* *was* *life* *itself* *.*
*What* *decision* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *in* *the* *drawing-room* *,* *and* *could* *find* *no* *answer* *.* *'* *But* *after* *all* *,* *'* *he* *reflected* *before* *turning* *into* *her* *room* *,* *'* *what* *is* *it* *that* *has* *happened* *?*
*Besides* *...* *to* *be* *jealous* *is* *to* *degrade* *myself* *and* *her* *,* *'* *he* *said* *to* *himself* *as* *he* *entered* *her* *sitting-room* *.*
*And* *again* *he* *repeated* *to* *himself* *in* *the* *dining-room* *:* *'* *Yes* *,* *it* *is* *necessary* *to* *decide* *,* *and* *stop* *it* *,* *and* *express* *my* *opinion* *...* *'* *And* *again* *in* *the* *drawing-room* *,* *at* *the* *turn* *into* *her* *room* *,* *he* *asked* *himself* *'* *Decide* *what* *?* *'* *and* *then* *,* *'* *What* *has* *happened* *?* *'* *and* *he* *replied* *'* *Nothing* *,* *'* *and* *remembered* *that* *jealousy* *is* *a* *feeling* *which* *insults* *a* *wife* *;* *but* *in* *the* *drawing-room* *he* *came* *again* *to* *the* *conviction* *that* *something* *had* *happened* *.*
*To* *put* *himself* *in* *thought* *and* *feeling* *into* *another* *being* *was* *a* *mental* *action* *foreign* *to* *Karenin* *.*
*Thinking* *it* *over* *,* *he* *regretted* *having* *to* *spend* *his* *time* *and* *powers* *of* *mind* *on* *inconspicuous* *domestic* *affairs* *;* *but* *nevertheless* *,* *clearly* *and* *definitely* *,* *as* *though* *it* *were* *an* *official* *report* *,* *the* *form* *and* *sequence* *of* *the* *speech* *he* *had* *to* *make* *shaped* *itself* *in* *his* *mind* *.* *'* *I* *must* *make* *the* *following* *quite* *clear* *:* *First* *,* *the* *importance* *of* *public* *opinion* *and* *propriety* *;* *secondly* *,* *the* *religious* *meaning* *of* *marriage* *;* *thirdly* *,* *if* *necessary* *,* *I* *must* *refer* *to* *the* *harm* *that* *may* *result* *to* *our* *son* *;* *fourthly* *,* *allude* *to* *her* *own* *unhappiness* *.* *'*
*What* *about* *?* *'* *she* *asked* *,* *seating* *herself* *.* *'* *Well* *,* *let* *us* *have* *a* *talk* *,* *if* *it* *is* *so* *important* *.*
*She* *felt* *herself* *clothed* *in* *an* *impenetrable* *armour* *of* *lies* *and* *that* *some* *unseen* *power* *was* *helping* *and* *supporting* *her* *.*
*As* *you* *know* *,* *I* *consider* *jealousy* *an* *insulting* *and* *degrading* *feeling* *and* *will* *never* *allow* *myself* *to* *be* *guided* *by* *it* *;* *but* *there* *are* *certain* *laws* *of* *propriety* *which* *one* *can* *not* *disregard* *with* *impunity* *.*
*For* *a* *long* *time* *she* *lay* *still* *with* *wide-open* *eyes* *,* *the* *brightness* *of* *which* *it* *seemed* *to* *her* *she* *could* *herself* *see* *in* *the* *darkness* *.*
*Karenin* *,* *strong* *as* *he* *was* *in* *his* *official* *activities* *,* *felt* *himself* *powerless* *here* *.*
*Each* *time* *he* *began* *to* *think* *about* *it* *,* *he* *felt* *that* *he* *must* *try* *again* *,* *that* *by* *kindness* *,* *tenderness* *,* *and* *persuasion* *there* *was* *still* *a* *hope* *of* *saving* *her* *and* *obliging* *her* *to* *bethink* *herself* *.* *Every* *day* *he* *prepared* *himself* *to* *have* *a* *talk* *with* *her* *.*
*She* *felt* *so* *guilty* *,* *so* *much* *to* *blame* *,* *that* *it* *only* *remained* *for* *her* *to* *humble* *herself* *and* *ask* *to* *be* *forgiven* *;* *but* *she* *had* *no* *one* *in* *the* *world* *now* *except* *him* *,* *so* *that* *even* *her* *prayer* *for* *forgiveness* *was* *addressed* *to* *him* *.*
*The* *shame* *she* *felt* *at* *her* *spiritual* *nakedness* *communicated* *itself* *to* *him* *.*
*Then* *,* *as* *the* *murderer* *desperately* *throws* *himself* *on* *the* *body* *,* *as* *though* *with* *passion* *,* *and* *drags* *it* *and* *hacks* *it* *,* *so* *Vronsky* *covered* *her* *face* *and* *shoulders* *with* *kisses* *.* *She* *held* *his* *hand* *and* *did* *not* *move* *.*
*At* *last* *,* *as* *though* *mastering* *herself* *,* *she* *sat* *up* *and* *pushed* *him* *away* *.*
*WHEN* *LEVIN* *FIRST* *RETURNED* *FROM* *MOSCOW* *,* *and* *while* *he* *still* *started* *and* *blushed* *every* *time* *he* *remembered* *the* *disgrace* *of* *the* *refusal* *,* *he* *had* *said* *to* *himself* *,* *'* *I* *blushed* *and* *started* *like* *this* *when* *I* *was* *ploughed* *in* *physics* *and* *had* *to* *remain* *in* *the* *second* *class* *;* *and* *in* *the* *same* *way* *I* *felt* *myself* *lost* *when* *I* *made* *a* *mess* *of* *my* *sister* *'s* *affair* *that* *had* *been* *entrusted* *to* *me* *.*
*However* *much* *he* *told* *himself* *that* *he* *was* *not* *at* *all* *to* *blame* *in* *that* *matter* *,* *the* *memory* *of* *it* *,* *together* *with* *other* *shameful* *memories* *,* *made* *him* *start* *and* *blush* *.*
*I* *'ll* *see* *to* *everything* *myself* *.* *'*
*The* *further* *he* *went* *the* *happier* *he* *felt* *and* *all* *sorts* *of* *plans* *for* *his* *estate* *,* *each* *better* *than* *the* *last* *,* *presented* *themselves* *to* *him* *:* *to* *plant* *rows* *of* *willows* *with* *a* *southern* *aspect* *on* *all* *the* *fields* *,* *so* *that* *the* *snow* *should* *not* *remain* *long* *under* *them* *;* *to* *divide* *the* *fields* *,* *tilling* *six* *and* *keeping* *three* *under* *grass* *;* *to* *build* *a* *new* *cattle-yard* *at* *the* *further* *end* *of* *the* *field* *,* *to* *dig* *a* *pond* *,* *and* *to* *make* *folds* *for* *the* *cattle* *for* *manuring* *purposes* *.*
*'* *Why* *,* *it* *was* *you* *who* *taught* *us* *to* *sow* *it* *.* *The* *year* *before* *last* *you* *gave* *me* *a* *bushel* *of* *seed* *yourself* *.*
*But* *Levin* *,* *frowning* *,* *pretended* *not* *to* *see* *the* *hand* *,* *and* *began* *taking* *the* *snipe* *out* *of* *the* *game-bag* *.* *'* *You* *have* *been* *pleased* *to* *amuse* *yourself* *with* *shooting* *?*
*On* *entering* *the* *study* *Ryabinin* *looked* *round* *by* *force* *of* *habit* *as* *though* *to* *find* *the* *icon* *,* *but* *after* *finding* *it* *he* *did* *not* *cross* *himself* *.*
*'* *If* *you* *please* *,* *the* *forest* *is* *mine* *,* *'* *he* *said* *,* *rapidly* *crossing* *himself* *and* *holding* *out* *his* *hand* *.* *'* *Take* *your* *money* *,* *the* *forest* *is* *mine* *.*
*An* *hour* *later* *the* *dealer* *;* *with* *his* *coat* *well* *lapped* *over* *,* *the* *hooks* *of* *his* *overcoat* *carefully* *fastened* *,* *and* *with* *the* *agreement* *in* *his* *pocket* *,* *seated* *himself* *in* *his* *little* *cart* *and* *drove* *home* *.*
*Levin* *really* *was* *in* *a* *bad* *humour* *,* *and* *in* *spite* *of* *his* *desire* *to* *behave* *kindly* *and* *amiably* *to* *his* *charming* *guest* *he* *could* *not* *master* *himself* *.*
*But* *Levin* *did* *not* *think* *all* *this* *.* *He* *dimly* *felt* *that* *there* *was* *something* *insulting* *to* *him* *in* *the* *affair* *,* *and* *was* *angry* *not* *with* *what* *had* *upset* *him* *but* *with* *everything* *that* *presented* *itself* *to* *him* *.*
*Try* *as* *Levin* *would* *to* *control* *himself* *,* *he* *remained* *morose* *and* *silent* *.*
*There* *was* *one* *question* *he* *wanted* *to* *put* *to* *Oblonsky* *,* *but* *could* *not* *bring* *himself* *to* *ask* *,* *nor* *could* *he* *find* *the* *form* *to* *put* *it* *in* *or* *the* *moment* *to* *ask* *it* *.*
*'* *Does* *he* *,* *or* *does* *he* *not* *know* *that* *I* *proposed* *?* *'* *thought* *Levin* *,* *looking* *at* *him* *.* *'* *Yes* *,* *there* *is* *something* *sly* *and* *diplomatic* *in* *his* *face* *,* *'* *and* *feeling* *himself* *blush* *,* *he* *gazed* *in* *silence* *straight* *into* *Oblonsky* *'s* *eyes* *.*
*A* *man* *whose* *father* *crawled* *up* *from* *nothing* *by* *intrigues* *and* *whose* *mother* *has* *had* *relations* *with* *heaven* *knows* *whom* *...* *No* *,* *pardon* *me* *,* *I* *consider* *myself* *and* *people* *like* *me* *aristocrats* *:* *people* *who* *can* *point* *back* *to* *three* *or* *four* *honourable* *generations* *of* *their* *family* *,* *all* *with* *a* *high* *standard* *of* *education* *(* *talent* *and* *intelligence* *are* *a* *different* *matter* *)* *,* *who* *have* *never* *cringed* *before* *anyone* *,* *never* *depended* *on* *anyone* *,* *but* *have* *lived* *as* *my* *father* *and* *my* *grandfather* *did* *.*
*It* *goes* *without* *saying* *that* *he* *spoke* *to* *none* *of* *them* *about* *his* *love* *,* *nor* *did* *he* *betray* *himself* *even* *in* *the* *wildest* *drinking-bouts* *(* *indeed* *,* *he* *never* *drank* *so* *as* *to* *lose* *all* *self-control* *)* *.* *And* *he* *silenced* *any* *of* *his* *thoughtless* *comrades* *who* *tried* *to* *hint* *at* *the* *liaison* *.*
*On* *the* *contrary* *he* *needed* *an* *occupation* *and* *an* *interest* *apart* *from* *his* *love* *,* *in* *which* *to* *refresh* *himself* *and* *find* *rest* *from* *the* *impressions* *which* *agitated* *him* *too* *violently* *.*
*'* *What* *?* *Fortifying* *yourself* *for* *your* *job* *?* *'* *asked* *the* *plump* *officer* *taking* *a* *seat* *beside* *him* *.*
*And* *drawing* *up* *his* *blanket* *he* *threw* *himself* *back* *on* *his* *pillow* *.* *'* *Leave* *me* *alone* *,* *Yashvin* *!* *'* *he* *said* *angrily* *to* *Yashvin* *,* *who* *was* *pulling* *the* *blanket* *off* *him* *.*
*Let* *us* *have* *a* *drink* *together* *!* *Vronsky* *,* *will* *you* *have* *a* *drink* *?* *'* *said* *Petritsky* *,* *getting* *up* *and* *wrapping* *himself* *to* *the* *arms* *in* *a* *rug* *of* *tiger-skin* *pattern* *.*
*The* *mare* *'s* *excitement* *had* *communicated* *itself* *to* *Vronsky* *.* *He* *felt* *that* *the* *blood* *was* *rushing* *to* *his* *heart* *,* *and* *that* *he* *,* *like* *the* *horse* *,* *wished* *to* *move* *and* *to* *bite* *;* *it* *was* *both* *frightening* *and* *joyful* *.*
*And* *now* *too* *,* *having* *given* *himself* *a* *shake* *,* *he* *continued* *the* *current* *of* *his* *thoughts* *:*
*When* *he* *was* *present* *neither* *Vronsky* *nor* *Anna* *allowed* *themselves* *to* *speak* *about* *anything* *they* *could* *not* *have* *mentioned* *to* *every* *one* *or* *even* *to* *hint* *at* *things* *the* *boy* *would* *not* *have* *understood* *.*
*But* *,* *besides* *this* *,* *her* *physical* *agitation* *communicated* *itself* *to* *him* *.*
*Vronsky* *could* *not* *understand* *how* *she* *,* *with* *her* *strong* *honest* *nature* *,* *could* *endure* *this* *state* *of* *deception* *and* *not* *wish* *to* *escape* *from* *it* *;* *but* *he* *did* *not* *guess* *that* *the* *chief* *cause* *lay* *in* *the* *one* *word* *'* *son* *'* *which* *she* *could* *not* *bring* *herself* *to* *utter* *.*
*When* *she* *thought* *about* *her* *son* *and* *his* *future* *relations* *with* *the* *mother* *who* *had* *left* *his* *father* *,* *she* *was* *so* *terrified* *at* *what* *she* *had* *done* *that* *she* *did* *not* *reason* *,* *but* *woman-like* *only* *tried* *to* *comfort* *herself* *with* *false* *arguments* *and* *words* *in* *order* *that* *everything* *should* *remain* *as* *before* *and* *that* *she* *might* *forget* *the* *dreadful* *question* *of* *what* *would* *happen* *to* *her* *son* *.*
*'* *I* *was* *just* *thinking* *the* *same* *,* *'* *he* *said* *;* *'* *wondering* *how* *you* *could* *sacrifice* *everything* *for* *my* *sake* *.* *I* *can* *not* *forgive* *myself* *for* *your* *unhappiness* *.* *'*
*Only* *after* *going* *some* *five* *miles* *did* *he* *recollect* *himself* *sufficiently* *to* *look* *at* *his* *watch* *and* *to* *realize* *that* *it* *was* *already* *half-past* *five* *,* *and* *that* *he* *was* *late* *.*
*'* *All* *right* *!* *all* *right* *!* *'* *answered* *the* *Englishman* *.* *'* *Do* *n't* *upset* *yourself* *.* *'*
*Vronsky* *once* *again* *glanced* *at* *the* *beautiful* *fascinating* *shape* *of* *the* *mare* *,* *whose* *whole* *body* *was* *trembling* *,* *and* *tearing* *himself* *with* *difficulty* *from* *this* *sight* *he* *left* *the* *shed* *.*
*The* *gelding* *,* *planting* *its* *feet* *with* *effort* *,* *reduced* *the* *speed* *of* *its* *enormous* *body* *,* *and* *the* *guards* *'* *officer* *,* *like* *one* *waking* *from* *deep* *sleep* *,* *looked* *round* *and* *forced* *himself* *to* *smile* *.*
*He* *ascertained* *that* *Anna* *,* *Betsy* *,* *and* *his* *brother* *'s* *wife* *were* *there* *,* *but* *in* *order* *not* *to* *agitate* *himself* *,* *intentionally* *avoided* *going* *near* *them* *.*
*'* *There* *are* *things* *which* *should* *be* *discussed* *only* *by* *those* *who* *are* *directly* *interested* *,* *and* *the* *matter* *you* *are* *concerning* *yourself* *about* *is* *one* *...* *'*
*Answer* *her* *,* *and* *do* *n't* *upset* *yourself* *before* *the* *race* *.*
*He* *was* *calm* *and* *important* *as* *usual* *,* *and* *standing* *in* *front* *of* *the* *horse* *,* *was* *himself* *holding* *both* *its* *reins* *.*
*The* *mare* *had* *not* *time* *to* *stir* *before* *Vronsky* *with* *a* *powerful* *and* *agile* *movement* *put* *his* *foot* *in* *the* *notched* *steel* *stirrup* *and* *seated* *himself* *lightly* *but* *firmly* *on* *the* *creaking* *leather* *of* *the* *saddle* *.*
*In* *the* *first* *moments* *Vronsky* *was* *master* *neither* *of* *himself* *nor* *of* *his* *mare* *.*
*Gladiator* *and* *Diana* *approached* *the* *stream* *together* *,* *and* *almost* *at* *the* *same* *moment* *rose* *above* *it* *and* *flew* *across* *to* *the* *other* *side* *;* *lightly* *as* *if* *on* *wings* *Frou-Frou* *rose* *up* *behind* *them* *;* *but* *at* *the* *moment* *when* *Vronsky* *felt* *himself* *raised* *in* *the* *air* *he* *suddenly* *saw* *,* *almost* *under* *his* *horse* *'s* *feet* *,* *Kusovlev* *,* *who* *was* *floundering* *on* *the* *other* *side* *of* *the* *stream* *with* *his* *Diana* *(* *Kusovlev* *had* *let* *go* *of* *the* *reins* *at* *the* *jump* *and* *the* *horse* *fell* *throwing* *him* *over* *her* *head* *)* *.*
*It* *was* *only* *by* *feeling* *himself* *nearer* *to* *the* *ground* *and* *by* *the* *smoothness* *of* *the* *pace* *that* *Vronsky* *knew* *how* *much* *the* *mare* *had* *increased* *her* *speed* *.*
*He* *himself* *,* *without* *knowing* *it* *,* *had* *made* *the* *unpardonable* *mistake* *of* *dropping* *back* *in* *his* *saddle* *and* *pulling* *up* *her* *head* *.*
*To* *his* *regret* *he* *felt* *that* *he* *was* *himself* *sound* *and* *unhurt* *.*
*He* *did* *not* *let* *himself* *think* *about* *this* *and* *did* *not* *think* *about* *it* *,* *yet* *at* *the* *bottom* *of* *his* *soul* *,* *without* *admitting* *it* *to* *himself* *or* *having* *any* *proofs* *or* *even* *suspicions* *of* *it* *,* *he* *nevertheless* *knew* *certainly* *that* *he* *was* *a* *wronged* *husband* *,* *and* *was* *therefore* *profoundly* *unhappy* *.*
*Had* *Karenin* *allowed* *himself* *to* *observe* *,* *he* *would* *have* *noticed* *the* *timid* *,* *confused* *look* *which* *the* *child* *cast* *first* *at* *his* *father* *and* *then* *at* *his* *mother* *.*
*As* *a* *child* *that* *has* *been* *hurt* *skips* *about* *,* *making* *its* *muscles* *move* *in* *order* *to* *dull* *its* *pain* *,* *so* *Karenin* *needed* *mental* *activity* *to* *smother* *those* *thoughts* *about* *his* *wife* *which* *in* *her* *presence* *and* *in* *the* *presence* *of* *Vronsky* *,* *and* *amid* *the* *continual* *mention* *of* *his* *name* *,* *forced* *themselves* *upon* *him* *.*
*'* *It* *is* *exciting* *,* *but* *one* *can* *not* *tear* *oneself* *away* *,* *'* *said* *another* *lady* *.* *'* *If* *I* *had* *been* *a* *Roman* *,* *I* *should* *never* *have* *missed* *a* *gladiatorial* *show* *.* *'*
*In* *spite* *of* *all* *he* *had* *seen* *,* *Karenin* *would* *still* *not* *allow* *himself* *to* *think* *of* *his* *wife* *'s* *real* *position* *.*
*'* *I* *asked* *you* *once* *before* *to* *conduct* *yourself* *in* *Society* *so* *that* *evil* *tongues* *might* *be* *unable* *to* *say* *anything* *against* *you* *.*
*And* *throwing* *herself* *back* *into* *the* *corner* *of* *the* *carriage* *she* *burst* *into* *sobs* *,* *hiding* *her* *face* *in* *her* *hands* *.*
*But* *for* *heaven* *'s* *sake* *'* *-* *her* *look* *added* *-* *'* *do* *not* *think* *that* *I* *shall* *force* *myself* *on* *you* *.* *I* *simply* *admire* *and* *love* *you* *.* *'*
*Kitty* *begged* *her* *mother* *more* *than* *ever* *to* *allow* *her* *to* *make* *Varenka* *'s* *acquaintance* *,* *and* *,* *much* *as* *the* *Princess* *disliked* *appearing* *to* *take* *the* *first* *step* *toward* *getting* *acquainted* *with* *Madame* *Stahl* *,* *who* *allowed* *herself* *to* *be* *proud* *of* *something* *or* *other* *,* *she* *made* *inquiries* *about* *Varenka* *,* *and* *,* *having* *learnt* *particulars* *which* *allowed* *her* *to* *conclude* *that* *though* *there* *might* *be* *little* *good* *there* *would* *be* *no* *harm* *in* *this* *acquaintance* *,* *she* *herself* *approached* *Varenka* *.*
*'* *Allow* *me* *to* *introduce* *myself* *,* *'* *said* *the* *Princess* *with* *her* *dignified* *smile* *.* *'* *My* *daughter* *has* *fallen* *in* *love* *with* *you* *.*
*She* *could* *not* *accompany* *herself* *but* *she* *sang* *at* *sight* *admirably* *.*
*'* *I* *hate* *him* *:* *and* *I* *can* *not* *forgive* *myself* *.* *'*
*But* *Varenka* *,* *lonely* *,* *without* *relatives* *or* *friends* *,* *with* *her* *sad* *disillusionment* *,* *wishing* *for* *nothing* *and* *regretting* *nothing* *,* *personified* *that* *perfection* *of* *which* *Kitty* *only* *allowed* *herself* *to* *dream* *.*
*In* *Varenka* *she* *saw* *that* *it* *was* *only* *necessary* *to* *forget* *oneself* *and* *to* *love* *others* *in* *order* *to* *be* *at* *peace* *,* *happy* *,* *and* *lovely* *.*
*Having* *now* *clearly* *understood* *what* *was* *most* *important* *,* *Kitty* *was* *not* *content* *merely* *to* *delight* *in* *it* *,* *but* *immediately* *with* *her* *whole* *soul* *devoted* *herself* *to* *this* *newly* *revealed* *life* *.*
*Kitty* *evidently* *prided* *herself* *on* *fulfilling* *the* *duties* *of* *a* *sister-of-mercy* *in* *that* *family* *.*
*'* *Kitty* *,* *have* *you* *not* *had* *some* *unpleasantness* *with* *the* *Petrovs* *?* *'* *the* *Princess* *asked* *when* *they* *were* *again* *alone* *together* *.* *'* *Why* *has* *she* *stopped* *sending* *the* *children* *here* *and* *coming* *herself* *?* *'*
*'* *This* *is* *my* *daughter* *,* *'* *said* *the* *Prince* *,* *'* *allow* *me* *to* *introduce* *myself* *.* *'*
*'* *I* *do* *not* *know* *whether* *you* *will* *remember* *me* *,* *but* *I* *must* *recall* *myself* *to* *you* *in* *order* *to* *thank* *you* *for* *your* *kindness* *to* *my* *daughter* *,* *'* *he* *said* *,* *raising* *his* *hat* *and* *not* *putting* *it* *on* *again* *.*
*She* *did* *not* *renounce* *all* *she* *had* *learnt* *,* *but* *realized* *that* *she* *had* *deceived* *herself* *when* *thinking* *that* *she* *could* *be* *what* *she* *wished* *to* *be* *.*
*With* *his* *natural* *kind* *heart* *he* *of* *course* *liked* *human* *beings* *more* *than* *he* *disliked* *them* *,* *and* *naturally* *the* *peasants* *were* *included* *;* *but* *he* *could* *not* *like* *or* *dislike* *the* *people* *as* *if* *they* *were* *something* *apart* *,* *because* *he* *not* *only* *lived* *among* *them* *,* *his* *interests* *closely* *bound* *up* *with* *theirs* *,* *but* *he* *considered* *himself* *one* *of* *the* *people* *and* *could* *not* *find* *in* *himself* *any* *special* *qualities* *or* *defects* *which* *placed* *him* *in* *contrast* *with* *them* *.*
*But* *the* *older* *he* *grew* *and* *the* *more* *intimately* *he* *came* *to* *know* *his* *brother* *,* *the* *oftener* *the* *thought* *occurred* *to* *him* *that* *the* *power* *of* *working* *for* *the* *general* *welfare* *-* *a* *power* *of* *which* *he* *felt* *himself* *entirely* *destitute* *-* *was* *not* *a* *virtue* *but* *rather* *a* *lack* *of* *something* *:* *not* *a* *lack* *of* *kindly* *honesty* *and* *noble* *desires* *and* *tastes* *,* *but* *a* *lack* *of* *the* *power* *of* *living* *,* *of* *what* *is* *called* *heart* *-* *the* *aspiration* *which* *makes* *a* *man* *choose* *one* *out* *of* *all* *the* *innumerable* *paths* *of* *life* *that* *present* *themselves* *,* *and* *desire* *that* *alone* *.*
*Constantine* *felt* *himself* *morally* *cornered* *,* *and* *in* *consequence* *became* *excited* *and* *involuntarily* *betrayed* *the* *chief* *cause* *of* *his* *indifference* *to* *social* *questions* *.*
*He* *felt* *himself* *beaten* *at* *every* *point* *,* *yet* *was* *sure* *that* *his* *brother* *had* *not* *understood* *what* *he* *had* *been* *trying* *to* *say* *,* *only* *he* *did* *not* *know* *why* *this* *was* *so* *:* *whether* *it* *was* *because* *he* *could* *not* *express* *himself* *clearly* *,* *or* *because* *his* *brother* *either* *could* *not* *or* *did* *not* *wish* *to* *understand* *him* *.*
*THE* *PERSONAL* *MATTER* *THAT* *OCCUPIED* *LEVIN* *while* *he* *was* *talking* *with* *his* *brother* *was* *this* *.* *The* *year* *before* *,* *when* *visiting* *a* *field* *that* *was* *being* *mown* *,* *he* *had* *lost* *his* *temper* *with* *his* *steward* *,* *and* *to* *calm* *himself* *had* *used* *a* *remedy* *of* *his* *own* *-* *he* *took* *a* *scythe* *from* *one* *of* *the* *peasants* *and* *himself* *began* *mowing* *.*
*'* *And* *please* *send* *my* *scythe* *to* *Titus* *to* *be* *sharpened* *,* *and* *have* *it* *taken* *to* *the* *meadow* *to-morrow* *:* *I* *may* *go* *mowing* *myself* *,* *'* *he* *said* *,* *trying* *to* *overcome* *his* *confusion* *.*
*Levin* *took* *it* *and* *began* *to* *put* *himself* *in* *position* *.*
*Levin* *straightened* *himself* *,* *sighed* *,* *and* *looked* *back* *.*
*The* *old* *man* *went* *along* *holding* *himself* *erect* *,* *moving* *with* *regular* *,* *long* *steps* *,* *turning* *out* *his* *toes* *,* *and* *with* *a* *precise* *and* *even* *motion* *that* *seemed* *to* *cost* *him* *no* *more* *effort* *than* *swinging* *his* *arms* *when* *walking* *,* *he* *laid* *the* *grass* *in* *a* *level* *high* *ridge* *,* *as* *if* *in* *play* *or* *as* *if* *the* *sharp* *scythe* *of* *its* *own* *accord* *whizzed* *through* *the* *juicy* *grass* *.*
*The* *longer* *Levin* *went* *on* *mowing* *,* *the* *oftener* *he* *experienced* *those* *moments* *of* *oblivion* *when* *his* *arms* *no* *longer* *seemed* *to* *swing* *the* *scythe* *,* *but* *the* *scythe* *itself* *his* *whole* *body* *,* *so* *conscious* *and* *full* *of* *life* *;* *and* *as* *if* *by* *magic* *,* *regularly* *and* *definitely* *without* *a* *thought* *being* *given* *to* *it* *,* *the* *work* *accomplished* *itself* *of* *its* *own* *accord* *.*
*He* *rose* *,* *stretching* *himself* *and* *smiling* *.*
*Like* *all* *guilty* *husbands* *Oblonsky* *was* *very* *anxious* *about* *his* *wife* *'s* *comfort* *,* *so* *he* *looked* *over* *the* *house* *himself* *and* *gave* *orders* *to* *have* *everything* *done* *that* *seemed* *to* *him* *necessary* *.*
*She* *consoled* *her* *mistress* *,* *assuring* *her* *that* *everything* *would* *'* *shape* *itself* *(* *this* *phrase* *was* *her* *own* *,* *and* *Matthew* *had* *learnt* *it* *from* *her* *)* *,* *and* *she* *went* *to* *work* *deliberately* *and* *without* *excitement* *.*
*A* *club* *was* *soon* *established* *beneath* *the* *laburnums* *,* *consisting* *of* *Matrena* *Filimonovna* *,* *the* *steward* *'s* *wife* *,* *the* *village* *elder* *,* *and* *the* *office* *clerk* *;* *and* *by* *means* *of* *this* *club* *the* *troubles* *began* *gradually* *to* *subside* *,* *so* *that* *in* *a* *week* *'s* *time* *everything* *had* *really* *'* *shaped* *itself* *.* *'*
*Often* *when* *watching* *her* *children* *she* *made* *great* *efforts* *to* *convince* *herself* *that* *she* *was* *mistaken* *,* *that* *being* *their* *mother* *she* *was* *not* *impartial* *;* *and* *yet* *she* *could* *not* *help* *telling* *herself* *that* *they* *were* *charming* *children* *,* *all* *the* *six* *,* *each* *in* *his* *or* *her* *own* *way* *,* *all* *of* *them* *such* *as* *are* *rarely* *to* *be* *met* *with* *;* *and* *she* *was* *happy* *in* *them* *and* *proud* *of* *them* *.*
*But* *as* *she* *was* *passing* *through* *the* *dancing-room* *she* *saw* *a* *scene* *which* *filled* *her* *heart* *with* *such* *joy* *that* *tears* *came* *to* *her* *eyes* *and* *she* *pardoned* *the* *little* *culprit* *herself* *.*
*Terenty* *the* *coachman* *tied* *to* *a* *tree* *the* *horses* *,* *that* *were* *swishing* *their* *tails* *to* *drive* *away* *the* *flies* *,* *stretched* *himself* *full* *length* *in* *the* *shade* *,* *pressing* *down* *the* *high* *grass* *,* *and* *smoked* *his* *pipe* *,* *while* *from* *the* *bathing-house* *came* *the* *sound* *of* *the* *incessant* *merry* *squealing* *of* *the* *children* *.*
*One* *of* *the* *young* *women* *was* *watching* *the* *governess* *,* *who* *was* *dressing* *after* *all* *the* *others* *,* *and* *seeing* *her* *put* *on* *a* *third* *petticoat* *could* *not* *refrain* *from* *remarking* *:* *'* *Look* *at* *her* *!* *She* *'s* *wrapping* *herself* *up* *and* *wrapping* *herself* *up* *,* *and* *has* *n't* *got* *enough* *round* *her* *yet* *!* *'* *and* *the* *women* *burst* *out* *laughing* *.*
*On* *seeing* *her* *he* *found* *himself* *confronted* *by* *just* *such* *a* *picture* *of* *family* *life* *as* *his* *fancy* *painted* *.*
*Arguments* *about* *cows* *being* *milk-producing* *machines* *did* *not* *commend* *themselves* *to* *her* *,* *for* *she* *imagined* *that* *such* *arguments* *were* *calculated* *only* *to* *interfere* *with* *farming* *.*
*From* *the* *Elder* *'s* *vague* *replies* *to* *Levin* *'s* *questions* *as* *to* *how* *much* *hay* *the* *largest* *meadow* *had* *yielded* *,* *from* *his* *haste* *to* *apportion* *the* *hay* *without* *waiting* *for* *permission* *,* *and* *from* *the* *general* *tone* *of* *the* *peasant* *,* *Levin* *knew* *that* *there* *was* *something* *not* *quite* *square* *about* *the* *apportionment* *,* *and* *decided* *to* *go* *and* *investigate* *the* *matter* *himself* *.*
*When* *the* *last* *of* *the* *hay* *had* *been* *apportioned* *,* *Levin* *entrusted* *the* *rest* *of* *the* *supervision* *to* *the* *steward* *and* *seated* *himself* *on* *a* *haycock* *marked* *with* *a* *willow* *branch* *,* *looking* *with* *enjoyment* *at* *the* *meadow* *teeming* *with* *busy* *people* *.*
*How* *shall* *I* *do* *it* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *,* *trying* *to* *find* *expression* *for* *what* *he* *had* *been* *thinking* *and* *the* *feelings* *he* *had* *lived* *through* *in* *that* *short* *night* *.*
*All* *his* *ideas* *and* *feelings* *separated* *themselves* *into* *three* *different* *lines* *of* *thought* *.*
*And* *here* *no* *clear* *idea* *presented* *itself* *to* *his* *mind* *.*
*How* *am* *I* *to* *do* *it* *?* *'* *he* *again* *asked* *himself* *.* *,* *and* *could* *find* *no* *reply* *.* *'* *However* *,* *I* *have* *not* *slept* *all* *night* *and* *ca* *n't* *render* *a* *clear* *account* *of* *myself* *now* *,* *'* *he* *thought* *,* *'* *but* *I* *'ll* *clear* *it* *up* *later* *.*
*I* *knew* *it* *and* *could* *see* *it* *all* *along* *,* *though* *I* *tried* *out* *of* *pity* *for* *her* *to* *deceive* *myself* *,* *'* *thought* *he* *.* *And* *it* *really* *seemed* *to* *him* *that* *he* *had* *always* *seen* *it* *.*
*The* *one* *thing* *that* *preoccupied* *him* *was* *the* *question* *of* *how* *he* *could* *best* *divest* *himself* *of* *the* *mud* *with* *which* *she* *in* *her* *fall* *had* *bespattered* *him* *:* *of* *how* *to* *do* *it* *in* *the* *way* *which* *would* *be* *most* *decent* *,* *most* *convenient* *for* *him* *,* *and* *consequently* *fairest* *,* *and* *how* *he* *should* *continue* *his* *active* *,* *honest* *,* *and* *useful* *career* *.*
*Do* *I* *not* *know* *beforehand* *that* *my* *friends* *would* *never* *allow* *me* *to* *go* *so* *far* *as* *to* *fight* *a* *duel* *,* *would* *not* *allow* *a* *statesman* *whom* *Russia* *needs* *to* *expose* *himself* *to* *danger* *?*
*This* *would* *happen* *:* *I* *,* *knowing* *beforehand* *that* *matters* *would* *never* *be* *allowed* *to* *reach* *a* *dangerous* *point* *,* *should* *have* *challenged* *a* *man* *in* *order* *to* *cover* *myself* *with* *false* *glamour* *.*
*That* *would* *be* *dishonest* *,* *it* *would* *be* *false* *,* *it* *would* *be* *deceiving* *myself* *as* *well* *as* *others* *.*
*Having* *considered* *and* *rejected* *the* *idea* *of* *a* *duel* *,* *Karenin* *turned* *his* *thoughts* *to* *divorce* *,* *the* *next* *expedient* *of* *which* *some* *of* *the* *wronged* *husbands* *he* *remembered* *had* *availed* *themselves* *.*
*My* *decision* *is* *as* *follows* *:* *Whatever* *your* *actions* *may* *have* *been* *,* *I* *do* *not* *consider* *myself* *justified* *in* *severing* *the* *bonds* *with* *which* *a* *Higher* *Power* *has* *united* *us* *.*
*If* *not* *,* *you* *can* *yourself* *foresee* *what* *awaits* *you* *and* *your* *son* *.*
*He* *felt* *that* *he* *now* *saw* *more* *deeply* *than* *ever* *into* *that* *complication* *,* *and* *that* *a* *capital* *idea* *(* *he* *might* *say* *that* *without* *flattering* *himself* *)* *had* *occurred* *to* *him* *,* *which* *would* *disentangle* *the* *whole* *business* *,* *raise* *him* *in* *his* *official* *career* *,* *upset* *his* *enemies* *,* *and* *therefore* *be* *of* *the* *greatest* *value* *to* *the* *State* *.*
*When* *Karenin* *had* *first* *taken* *up* *his* *present* *post* *he* *had* *at* *once* *realized* *this* *and* *had* *wished* *to* *stop* *it* *;* *but* *,* *till* *he* *felt* *himself* *firmly* *seated* *,* *he* *knew* *that* *it* *would* *not* *be* *wise* *to* *do* *so* *as* *too* *many* *interests* *were* *involved* *.* *Afterwards* *,* *being* *occupied* *with* *other* *matters* *,* *he* *had* *simply* *forgotten* *the* *business* *.*
*After* *he* *left* *her* *,* *she* *told* *herself* *that* *she* *was* *glad* *she* *had* *told* *him* *,* *that* *now* *everything* *would* *be* *definite* *-* *at* *any* *rate* *,* *the* *falsehood* *and* *deception* *would* *no* *longer* *exist* *.*
*She* *asked* *herself* *where* *she* *would* *go* *when* *turned* *out* *,* *and* *found* *no* *answer* *.*
*When* *she* *thought* *about* *Vronsky* *,* *she* *imagined* *that* *he* *did* *not* *love* *her* *,* *that* *he* *was* *beginning* *to* *find* *her* *a* *burden* *,* *and* *that* *she* *could* *not* *offer* *herself* *to* *him* *;* *and* *in* *consequence* *she* *felt* *hostile* *toward* *him* *.*
*'* *Go* *to* *Mariette* *,* *'* *she* *said* *to* *Serezha* *,* *who* *had* *come* *out* *after* *her* *,* *and* *she* *began* *pacing* *up* *and* *down* *the* *straw* *matting* *of* *the* *verandah* *.* *'* *Is* *it* *possible* *that* *they* *could* *not* *forgive* *me* *or* *understand* *that* *it* *could* *not* *have* *been* *otherwise* *?* *'* *she* *asked* *herself* *.*
*'* *Besides* *,* *what* *can* *I* *write* *to* *him* *?* *'* *she* *asked* *herself* *;* *and* *again* *she* *blushed* *with* *shame* *.*
*But* *the* *time* *came* *when* *I* *understood* *that* *I* *could* *no* *longer* *deceive* *myself* *that* *I* *am* *alive* *,* *and* *can* *not* *be* *blamed* *because* *God* *made* *me* *so* *,* *that* *I* *want* *to* *love* *and* *to* *live* *.*
*He* *will* *be* *in* *the* *right* *,* *but* *as* *for* *me* *who* *am* *already* *disgraced* *he* *will* *disgrace* *me* *more* *and* *more* *!* *'* *-* *``* *You* *can* *yourself* *foresee* *what* *awaits* *you* *and* *your* *son* *!* *''* *-* *'* *-* *she* *repeated* *the* *words* *of* *the* *letter* *.* *'* *That* *is* *a* *threat* *that* *he* *will* *take* *my* *son* *from* *me* *,* *and* *probably* *their* *stupid* *laws* *will* *permit* *it* *.*
*Everything* *did* *itself* *.*
*That* *is* *a* *question* *an* *enfant* *terrible* *might* *put* *!* *'* *and* *Betsy* *evidently* *tried* *to* *,* *but* *could* *not* *,* *control* *herself* *,* *and* *again* *burst* *out* *into* *the* *infectious* *kind* *of* *laughter* *peculiar* *to* *those* *who* *laugh* *seldom* *.* *'* *You* *must* *ask* *them* *!* *'* *she* *uttered* *,* *while* *tears* *of* *laughter* *choked* *her* *voice* *.*
*'* *How* *I* *wish* *I* *knew* *others* *as* *I* *know* *myself* *!* *'* *said* *Anna* *,* *seriously* *and* *thoughtfully* *.* *'* *Am* *I* *worse* *than* *others* *or* *better* *?*
*'* *To* *fall* *asleep* *one* *must* *have* *worked* *,* *and* *also* *to* *amuse* *oneself* *one* *must* *have* *worked* *.* *'*
*While* *quite* *young* *and* *still* *in* *the* *Cadet* *Corps* *he* *had* *experienced* *the* *humiliation* *of* *a* *refusal* *when* *,* *having* *got* *into* *debt* *,* *he* *had* *tried* *to* *borrow* *money* *,* *and* *since* *then* *he* *had* *never* *again* *allowed* *himself* *to* *get* *into* *such* *a* *position* *.*
*To* *keep* *things* *straight* *he* *was* *in* *the* *habit* *,* *some* *five* *or* *six* *times* *a* *year* *according* *to* *circumstances* *,* *of* *secluding* *himself* *and* *clearing* *up* *all* *his* *affairs* *.*
*Consequently* *Vronsky* *,* *who* *was* *in* *the* *habit* *of* *spending* *45,000* *roubles* *a* *year* *,* *having* *this* *year* *received* *only* *25,000* *,* *found* *himself* *in* *difficulties* *.*
*He* *would* *have* *let* *his* *hand* *be* *cut* *off* *before* *he* *would* *have* *allowed* *himself* *by* *word* *or* *hint* *to* *insult* *her* *,* *or* *fail* *to* *show* *her* *all* *the* *respect* *that* *a* *woman* *can* *possibly* *desire* *.*
*He* *had* *made* *this* *proposal* *,* *but* *now* *,* *thinking* *it* *over* *,* *he* *saw* *clearly* *that* *it* *would* *be* *better* *to* *avoid* *that* *plan* *,* *and* *yet* *,* *while* *he* *told* *himself* *so* *,* *he* *feared* *that* *this* *might* *be* *wrong* *.*
*'* *When* *I* *told* *her* *to* *leave* *her* *husband* *,* *that* *meant* *that* *she* *should* *unite* *herself* *with* *me* *.*
*Having* *then* *perforce* *to* *assume* *the* *role* *of* *an* *independent* *character* *,* *he* *played* *it* *very* *adroitly* *and* *cleverly* *,* *as* *though* *he* *had* *no* *grudge* *against* *anyone* *,* *did* *not* *feel* *himself* *at* *all* *offended* *,* *and* *only* *wished* *to* *be* *left* *in* *peace* *to* *enjoy* *himself* *.*
*He* *jerked* *his* *head* *backwards* *and* *raised* *his* *glass* *,* *welcoming* *Vronsky* *and* *showing* *by* *this* *gesture* *that* *he* *must* *first* *go* *to* *the* *sergeant-major* *,* *who* *was* *already* *stretching* *himself* *and* *puckering* *his* *lips* *for* *a* *kiss* *.*
*He* *put* *down* *his* *legs* *,* *threw* *one* *of* *them* *over* *the* *other* *,* *and* *placing* *his* *arm* *across* *it* *felt* *its* *firm* *calf* *,* *where* *he* *had* *hurt* *it* *in* *the* *fall* *the* *day* *before* *,* *and* *then* *,* *throwing* *himself* *back* *,* *sighed* *deeply* *several* *times* *.*
*He* *had* *often* *before* *been* *joyfully* *conscious* *of* *his* *body* *,* *but* *had* *never* *loved* *himself* *,* *his* *own* *body* *,* *as* *he* *did* *now* *.*
*'* *Get* *on* *,* *get* *on* *!* *'* *he* *shouted* *to* *the* *coachman* *,* *thrusting* *himself* *out* *of* *the* *window* *,* *and* *taking* *a* *three-rouble* *note* *from* *his* *pocket* *he* *put* *it* *into* *the* *man* *'s* *hand* *as* *the* *latter* *turned* *round* *.*
*But* *as* *soon* *as* *she* *had* *spoken* *he* *straightened* *himself* *and* *his* *face* *assumed* *a* *proud* *and* *stern* *expression* *.*
*And* *at* *that* *instant* *the* *thought* *of* *what* *Serpukhovskoy* *had* *just* *been* *saying* *to* *him* *and* *of* *what* *had* *occurred* *to* *him* *that* *morning* *(* *that* *it* *was* *better* *not* *to* *bind* *himself* *)* *flashed* *through* *his* *mind* *,* *and* *he* *knew* *that* *he* *could* *not* *pass* *on* *the* *thought* *to* *her* *.*
*Stremov* *(* *who* *was* *also* *on* *the* *Special* *Committee* *)* *,* *stung* *to* *the* *quick* *,* *began* *justifying* *himself* *,* *and* *the* *meeting* *became* *quite* *a* *stormy* *one* *.* *But* *Karenin* *triumphed* *and* *his* *motion* *was* *carried* *;* *three* *new* *Special* *Committees* *were* *formed* *,* *and* *the* *next* *day* *nothing* *was* *talked* *about* *in* *a* *certain* *Petersburg* *set* *but* *that* *meeting* *.*
*Although* *while* *preparing* *for* *this* *interview* *she* *had* *been* *teaching* *herself* *to* *despise* *and* *blame* *him* *,* *she* *did* *not* *know* *what* *to* *say* *,* *and* *pitied* *him* *.* *There* *was* *silence* *for* *some* *time* *.*
*Therefore* *I* *warn* *you* *that* *our* *relations* *must* *remain* *what* *they* *have* *been* *,* *and* *that* *if* *you* *let* *yourself* *be* *compromised* *I* *shall* *be* *obliged* *to* *take* *measures* *to* *safeguard* *my* *honour* *.* *'*
*The* *delight* *he* *had* *felt* *in* *the* *labour* *itself* *,* *occasioned* *by* *his* *having* *drawn* *nearer* *to* *the* *peasants* *,* *his* *jealousy* *of* *them* *,* *his* *envy* *of* *their* *life* *,* *his* *desire* *to* *adopt* *that* *kind* *of* *life* *(* *which* *had* *not* *been* *a* *mere* *desire* *that* *night* *but* *a* *real* *intention* *,* *the* *details* *of* *which* *he* *had* *considered* *)* *,* *all* *these* *things* *together* *had* *so* *changed* *his* *outlook* *on* *the* *working* *of* *his* *estate* *that* *he* *could* *no* *longer* *feel* *his* *former* *interest* *in* *the* *work* *,* *or* *help* *noticing* *the* *unpleasant* *relation* *to* *the* *labourer* *on* *which* *it* *was* *all* *based* *.* *Herds* *of* *cattle* *of* *an* *improved* *breed* *like* *Pava* *,* *the* *tilled* *land* *ploughed* *with* *good* *ploughs* *,* *the* *nine* *fields* *surrounded* *with* *willows* *,* *the* *hundreds* *of* *acres* *of* *deeply* *manured* *land* *,* *the* *seed* *drills* *and* *all* *such* *things* *,* *were* *splendid* *if* *they* *could* *be* *worked* *by* *himself* *alone* *or* *with* *the* *help* *of* *friends* *and* *people* *in* *sympathy* *with* *him* *.*
*Levin* *had* *long* *felt* *dissatisfied* *with* *his* *relation* *to* *the* *work* *on* *his* *estate* *.* *He* *had* *seen* *that* *the* *boat* *was* *leaking* *but* *had* *not* *found* *or* *looked* *for* *the* *leak* *,* *and* *perhaps* *had* *purposely* *deceived* *himself* *,* *for* *had* *he* *been* *disillusioned* *in* *that* *work* *,* *he* *would* *have* *had* *nothing* *left* *.*
*'* *That* *'s* *how* *it* *is* *,* *sir* *,* *'* *said* *the* *old* *man* *,* *rising* *;* *and* *after* *crossing* *himself* *several* *times* *he* *thanked* *Levin* *and* *went* *out* *.*
*Besides* *,* *at* *the* *bottom* *of* *his* *heart* *he* *wanted* *to* *put* *himself* *to* *the* *test* *and* *again* *to* *estimate* *his* *feelings* *for* *the* *girl* *.*
*The* *Sviyazhskys* *were* *friendly* *with* *Levin* *,* *and* *therefore* *he* *allowed* *himself* *to* *sound* *Sviyazhsky* *and* *try* *to* *get* *to* *the* *very* *foundation* *of* *his* *philosophy* *of* *life* *,* *but* *it* *was* *all* *in* *vain* *.*
*His* *discomfort* *communicated* *itself* *to* *the* *pretty* *sister* *,* *but* *the* *hostess* *did* *not* *seem* *to* *notice* *anything* *and* *purposely* *drew* *her* *sister* *into* *the* *conversation* *.*
*Sviyazhsky* *got* *down* *the* *books* *and* *settled* *himself* *in* *a* *rocking-chair* *.*
*Though* *at* *present* *Levin* *was* *more* *interested* *in* *agriculture* *than* *in* *anything* *else* *,* *he* *asked* *himself* *while* *listening* *to* *his* *host* *,* *'* *What* *is* *there* *inside* *him* *?*
*It* *was* *true* *that* *often* *when* *talking* *to* *the* *peasants* *,* *and* *explaining* *to* *them* *the* *advantages* *of* *the* *plan* *,* *Levin* *felt* *that* *they* *were* *only* *listening* *to* *the* *sound* *of* *his* *voice* *and* *were* *quite* *determined* *,* *whatever* *he* *might* *say* *,* *not* *to* *let* *themselves* *be* *taken* *in* *.*
*On* *the* *thirtieth* *of* *September* *the* *sun* *showed* *itself* *in* *the* *morning* *,* *and* *,* *in* *hopes* *of* *fine* *weather* *,* *Levin* *began* *seriously* *preparing* *for* *his* *departure* *.*
*An* *old* *inn-keeper* *,* *into* *whose* *house* *he* *had* *gone* *to* *dry* *himself* *,* *evidently* *approved* *of* *Levin* *'s* *plan* *and* *had* *offered* *to* *join* *a* *group* *to* *buy* *cattle* *.*
*I* *feel* *sure* *that* *Franklin* *felt* *just* *as* *insignificant* *and* *distrusted* *himself* *just* *as* *I* *do* *when* *he* *remembered* *his* *past* *.*
*Having* *dined* *,* *Levin* *as* *usual* *sat* *down* *in* *his* *easy-chair* *with* *a* *book* *,* *and* *while* *reading* *continued* *to* *think* *about* *his* *impending* *journey* *in* *connection* *with* *the* *book* *he* *was* *writing* *.* *To-day* *the* *importance* *of* *his* *work* *presented* *itself* *to* *him* *with* *especial* *clearness* *,* *and* *whole* *paragraphs* *of* *their* *own* *accord* *shaped* *themselves* *in* *his* *mind* *,* *expressing* *the* *gist* *of* *his* *thoughts* *.*
*When* *he* *met* *Agatha* *Mikhaylovna* *he* *joked* *with* *her* *and* *questioned* *her* *about* *the* *other* *old* *servants* *:* *The* *news* *of* *Parfen* *Denisich* *'s* *death* *affected* *him* *strangely* *.* *A* *look* *of* *fear* *appeared* *on* *his* *face* *but* *he* *immediately* *recovered* *himself* *.*
*Communists* *deny* *the* *justice* *of* *property* *,* *capital* *,* *or* *inheritance* *,* *while* *I* *do* *not* *deny* *that* *main* *stimulus* *'* *(* *it* *was* *repulsive* *to* *Levin* *to* *find* *himself* *using* *such* *words* *,* *but* *since* *he* *had* *been* *engrossed* *in* *his* *work* *he* *had* *involuntarily* *begun* *using* *more* *and* *more* *foreign* *words* *)* *,* *'* *but* *want* *only* *to* *regulate* *labour* *.* *'*
*Vronsky* *had* *a* *distinguished* *appearance* *,* *possessed* *the* *art* *of* *carrying* *himself* *with* *respectful* *dignity* *,* *and* *was* *in* *the* *habit* *of* *associating* *with* *people* *of* *that* *class* *.*
*The* *Prince* *enjoyed* *unusually* *good* *health* *even* *for* *a* *Prince* *,* *and* *by* *means* *of* *gymnastics* *and* *care* *of* *his* *body* *had* *developed* *his* *strength* *to* *such* *a* *degree* *that* *,* *in* *spite* *of* *the* *excess* *he* *indulged* *in* *when* *amusing* *himself* *,* *he* *looked* *as* *fresh* *as* *a* *big* *green* *shining* *cucumber* *.*
*But* *the* *chief* *reason* *why* *the* *Prince* *'s* *presence* *oppressed* *Vronsky* *was* *that* *he* *saw* *himself* *reflected* *in* *the* *Prince* *,* *and* *what* *he* *saw* *in* *that* *mirror* *was* *not* *flattering* *to* *his* *vanity* *.*
*Involuntarily* *submitting* *to* *Anna* *'s* *weakness* *,* *who* *,* *ready* *in* *advance* *to* *accept* *anything* *,* *gave* *herself* *up* *to* *him* *entirely* *and* *expected* *him* *to* *decide* *her* *fate* *,* *he* *had* *long* *ceased* *to* *imagine* *that* *their* *union* *could* *end* *in* *the* *way* *he* *had* *then* *expected* *.*
*His* *ambitious* *plans* *had* *receded* *to* *the* *background* *,* *and* *feeling* *that* *he* *had* *come* *out* *of* *the* *range* *of* *activity* *in* *which* *everything* *was* *definite* *,* *he* *completely* *gave* *himself* *up* *to* *his* *passion* *,* *and* *that* *passion* *bound* *him* *closer* *and* *closer* *to* *her* *.*
*These* *fits* *of* *jealousy* *which* *had* *lately* *begun* *to* *repeat* *themselves* *more* *and* *more* *frequently* *,* *horrified* *him* *and* *,* *however* *much* *he* *tried* *to* *hide* *the* *fact* *,* *they* *made* *him* *feel* *colder* *toward* *her* *,* *although* *he* *knew* *that* *the* *jealousy* *was* *caused* *by* *love* *for* *him* *.*
*How* *often* *he* *had* *told* *himself* *that* *to* *be* *loved* *by* *her* *was* *happiness* *!* *and* *now* *that* *she* *loved* *him* *,* *as* *only* *a* *woman* *can* *for* *whom* *love* *outweighs* *all* *else* *that* *is* *good* *in* *life* *,* *he* *was* *much* *further* *from* *happiness* *than* *when* *he* *had* *followed* *her* *from* *Moscow* *.*
*Then* *he* *thought* *himself* *unhappy* *,* *but* *happiness* *was* *all* *in* *the* *future* *;* *now* *he* *felt* *that* *the* *best* *happiness* *was* *already* *in* *the* *past* *.*
*And* *in* *my* *horror* *I* *tried* *to* *wake* *,* *but* *I* *woke* *still* *in* *a* *dream* *and* *began* *asking* *myself* *what* *it* *could* *mean* *,* *and* *Korney* *says* *to* *me* *:* *``* *You* *will* *die* *in* *childbed* *,* *in* *childbed* *,* *ma* *'am* *...* *''*
*And* *for* *the* *first* *time* *she* *felt* *for* *him* *and* *put* *herself* *for* *an* *instant* *in* *his* *place* *,* *and* *was* *sorry* *for* *him* *.*
*'* *He* *will* *be* *here* *in* *a* *moment* *,* *'* *said* *the* *assistant* *,* *and* *in* *fact* *,* *a* *minute* *or* *two* *later* *,* *in* *the* *doorway* *appeared* *the* *long* *figure* *of* *an* *elderly* *jurisconsult* *who* *had* *been* *conferring* *with* *the* *lawyer* *,* *followed* *by* *the* *lawyer* *himself* *.*
*'* *Wo* *n't* *you* *take* *a* *seat* *?* *'* *He* *pointed* *to* *a* *chair* *beside* *a* *writing-table* *covered* *with* *papers* *,* *and* *himself* *took* *the* *principal* *seat* *,* *rubbing* *his* *little* *hands* *with* *their* *short* *fingers* *covered* *with* *white* *hair* *and* *bending* *his* *head* *to* *one* *side* *.*
*I* *should* *not* *venture* *so* *to* *express* *myself* *were* *I* *talking* *to* *a* *man* *of* *undeveloped* *mind* *,* *'* *said* *the* *lawyer* *,* *'* *but* *I* *expect* *it* *is* *comprehensible* *to* *you* *.* *'*
*The* *lawyer* *bowed* *deferentially* *,* *let* *his* *client* *pass* *out* *,* *and* *being* *left* *alone* *abandoned* *himself* *to* *his* *happy* *mood* *.*
*He* *announced* *,* *to* *the* *surprise* *of* *the* *Committee* *,* *that* *he* *would* *ask* *to* *be* *allowed* *to* *go* *and* *investigate* *the* *matter* *himself* *,* *and* *having* *received* *permission* *he* *started* *for* *the* *distant* *Provinces* *.*
*From* *the* *theatre* *Oblonsky* *went* *to* *the* *market* *,* *and* *himself* *selected* *the* *fish* *and* *asparagus* *for* *dinner* *;* *and* *at* *noon* *he* *was* *already* *at* *Dusseaux* *'s* *Hotel* *,* *where* *he* *had* *to* *call* *on* *three* *people* *who* *,* *fortunately* *for* *him* *,* *had* *all* *put* *up* *at* *the* *same* *place* *.* *These* *were* *:* *Levin* *,* *who* *had* *only* *just* *returned* *from* *abroad* *;* *a* *newly-appointed* *superior* *official* *who* *was* *making* *a* *tour* *of* *inspection* *in* *Moscow* *;* *and* *Karenin* *,* *his* *brother-in-law* *,* *whom* *he* *wanted* *to* *secure* *for* *dinner* *.*
*Besides* *these* *he* *meant* *to* *ask* *the* *well-known* *crank* *and* *enthusiast* *Pestsov* *,* *a* *Liberal* *and* *a* *great* *talker* *,* *a* *musician* *and* *historian* *,* *and* *the* *dearest* *of* *fifty-year-old* *boys* *,* *who* *would* *serve* *as* *sauce* *or* *condiment* *to* *Koznyshev* *and* *Karenin* *-* *while* *he* *himself* *,* *Oblonsky* *,* *would* *stir* *them* *all* *up* *and* *set* *them* *by* *the* *ears* *.*
*In* *the* *depths* *of* *his* *soul* *he* *had* *felt* *sure* *that* *he* *should* *meet* *her* *that* *evening* *,* *but* *to* *maintain* *his* *freedom* *of* *thought* *he* *had* *tried* *to* *assure* *himself* *that* *he* *did* *not* *know* *it* *.*
*She* *was* *filled* *with* *joy* *,* *and* *that* *joy* *made* *her* *feel* *so* *confused* *that* *for* *a* *moment* *when* *,* *as* *he* *was* *approaching* *the* *hostess* *,* *he* *again* *glanced* *at* *her* *,* *Kitty* *herself* *,* *he* *,* *and* *Dolly* *all* *thought* *she* *would* *not* *be* *able* *to* *control* *herself* *but* *would* *burst* *into* *tears* *.*
*'* *I* *expect* *great* *strength* *is* *needed* *for* *bear-hunting* *,* *'* *said* *Karenin* *,* *who* *had* *the* *vaguest* *notions* *about* *sport* *,* *as* *he* *helped* *himself* *to* *cheese* *and* *broke* *his* *slice* *of* *bread* *,* *cut* *as* *fine* *as* *a* *cobweb* *.*
*He* *felt* *himself* *at* *a* *height* *that* *made* *him* *giddy* *,* *and* *there* *,* *somewhere* *far* *below* *,* *were* *all* *these* *good* *excellent* *Karenins* *,* *Oblonskys* *,* *and* *the* *rest* *of* *the* *world* *.*
*'* *I* *am* *not* *expressing* *my* *opinion* *of* *either* *kind* *of* *education* *,* *'* *replied* *Koznyshev* *,* *smiling* *at* *him* *condescendingly* *as* *at* *a* *child* *and* *holding* *out* *his* *glass* *.* *'* *All* *I* *say* *is* *that* *both* *sides* *have* *weighty* *arguments* *in* *their* *favour* *,* *'* *he* *continued* *addressing* *himself* *to* *Karenin* *.*
*Turovtsyn* *burst* *into* *loud* *laughter* *,* *and* *Koznyshev* *felt* *sorry* *he* *had* *not* *made* *that* *remark* *himself* *.*
*'* *Oh* *yes* *,* *an* *Englishman* *on* *board* *ship* *did* *once* *nurse* *his* *baby* *,* *'* *said* *the* *old* *Prince* *,* *allowing* *himself* *this* *indelicacy* *in* *his* *daughters* *'* *presence* *.*
*And* *with* *a* *kindly* *smile* *on* *his* *moist* *and* *rosy* *lips* *,* *he* *went* *on* *addressing* *himself* *chiefly* *to* *Karenin* *,* *the* *principal* *guest* *.* *'* *Vasya* *Pryachnikov* *,* *as* *I* *was* *told* *to-day* *,* *has* *fought* *a* *duel* *with* *Kvitsky* *and* *killed* *him* *.* *'*
*He* *again* *made* *an* *attempt* *to* *draw* *his* *brother-in-law* *away* *,* *but* *Karenin* *himself* *asked* *with* *interest* *:*
*Dolly* *was* *firmly* *convinced* *of* *Anna* *'s* *innocence* *,* *and* *felt* *herself* *growing* *pale* *and* *her* *lips* *trembling* *from* *anger* *with* *this* *cold* *,* *unfeeling* *man* *who* *so* *calmly* *intended* *to* *ruin* *her* *innocent* *friend* *.*
*'* *It* *is* *difficult* *to* *make* *a* *mistake* *when* *a* *wife* *herself* *announces* *to* *her* *husband* *that* *eight* *years* *of* *married* *life* *and* *a* *son* *have* *all* *been* *an* *error* *,* *and* *that* *she* *wants* *to* *begin* *life* *from* *the* *beginning* *again* *,* *'* *he* *said* *crossly* *,* *sniffing* *.*
*He* *gave* *himself* *a* *shake* *and* *began* *to* *speak* *in* *a* *loud* *and* *piercing* *voice* *.*
*Every* *one* *has* *trouble* *enough* *of* *his* *own* *!* *'* *And* *having* *got* *himself* *under* *control* *,* *Karenin* *quietly* *rose* *,* *said* *good-bye* *,* *and* *went* *away* *.*
*But* *before* *he* *had* *finished* *writing* *she* *read* *it* *under* *his* *hand* *,* *finished* *the* *sentence* *herself* *,* *and* *wrote* *the* *answer* *:* *'* *Yes* *.* *'*
*They* *arrived* *at* *the* *Council* *,* *and* *Levin* *listened* *to* *the* *secretary* *haltingly* *reading* *an* *official* *report* *which* *he* *evidently* *did* *not* *understand* *himself* *,* *but* *from* *his* *face* *Levin* *saw* *what* *a* *nice* *,* *kind* *,* *and* *splendid* *fellow* *he* *was* *.*
*She* *had* *done* *everything* *she* *could* *-* *she* *had* *run* *up* *to* *him* *and* *given* *herself* *entirely* *,* *shyly* *,* *and* *joyfully* *.*
*She* *had* *prepared* *herself* *to* *meet* *him* *alone* *,* *and* *had* *rejoiced* *at* *the* *idea* *,* *yet* *had* *felt* *timid* *and* *bashful* *and* *had* *not* *known* *what* *she* *would* *do* *.*
*Without* *thinking* *or* *asking* *herself* *what* *next* *,* *she* *had* *come* *to* *him* *and* *acted* *as* *she* *had* *.*
*THE* *PRINCESS* *SAT* *IN* *HER* *ARMCHAIR* *silently* *smiling* *,* *and* *the* *Prince* *seated* *himself* *beside* *her* *.*
*'* *Well* *,* *you* *see* *,* *I* *do* *n't* *know* *at* *all* *;* *I* *only* *expressed* *my* *wish* *,* *'* *he* *said* *,* *to* *excuse* *himself* *.*
*He* *had* *now* *mastered* *himself* *and* *was* *able* *to* *speak* *,* *and* *there* *was* *much* *he* *had* *to* *say* *to* *her* *;* *but* *what* *he* *said* *was* *not* *at* *all* *what* *he* *had* *intended* *.*
*He* *knew* *that* *between* *him* *and* *her* *there* *could* *and* *should* *be* *nothing* *secret* *,* *and* *therefore* *he* *decided* *that* *it* *was* *his* *duty* *,* *but* *he* *had* *not* *considered* *how* *the* *confession* *might* *affect* *her* *:* *he* *had* *not* *put* *himself* *in* *her* *place* *.*
*How* *was* *it* *they* *did* *not* *see* *that* *by* *giving* *him* *that* *post* *they* *were* *ruining* *themselves* *and* *their* *own* *prestige* *?*
*Vronsky* *went* *away* *,* *but* *came* *again* *in* *the* *morning* *to* *inquire* *.* *Karenin* *met* *him* *in* *the* *ante-room* *and* *said* *:* *'* *Remain* *here* *:* *she* *may* *ask* *for* *you* *,* *'* *and* *himself* *showed* *him* *into* *Anna* *'s* *boudoir* *.*
*He* *felt* *ashamed* *,* *humiliated* *,* *guilty* *,* *and* *deprived* *of* *the* *possibility* *of* *cleansing* *himself* *from* *his* *degradation* *.*
*He* *felt* *himself* *knocked* *quite* *out* *of* *the* *rut* *along* *which* *he* *had* *hitherto* *trodden* *so* *proudly* *and* *so* *lightly* *.*
*Fancies* *,* *memories* *,* *and* *most* *strange* *thoughts* *followed* *one* *another* *with* *extreme* *rapidity* *and* *clearness* *:* *now* *he* *saw* *himself* *pouring* *out* *medicine* *for* *the* *patient* *and* *overfilling* *the* *spoon* *,* *then* *he* *saw* *the* *midwife* *'s* *white* *hands* *,* *or* *Karenin* *'s* *curious* *pose* *as* *he* *knelt* *on* *the* *floor* *by* *her* *bedside* *.*
*He* *stretched* *out* *his* *legs* *and* *again* *threw* *himself* *upon* *the* *sofa* *,* *in* *the* *same* *position* *as* *before* *,* *and* *shut* *his* *eyes* *.*
*'* *What* *is* *this* *?* *Am* *I* *going* *mad* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *.*
*What* *else* *makes* *people* *go* *mad* *?* *What* *makes* *them* *shoot* *themselves* *?* *'* *he* *replied* *to* *his* *own* *thought* *;* *and* *opening* *his* *eyes* *he* *was* *surprised* *to* *see* *,* *close* *to* *his* *head* *,* *an* *embroidered* *cushion* *worked* *by* *Varya* *,* *his* *brother* *'s* *wife* *.*
*He* *rose* *from* *the* *sofa* *,* *took* *off* *his* *coat* *,* *loosened* *the* *strap* *,* *and* *,* *baring* *his* *shaggy* *chest* *to* *breathe* *more* *freely* *,* *walked* *across* *the* *room* *.* *'* *That* *'s* *how* *one* *goes* *mad* *,* *'* *he* *said* *again* *,* *'* *and* *how* *one* *shoots* *oneself* *so* *as* *not* *to* *be* *ashamed* *,* *'* *he* *concluded* *slowly* *.*
*He* *wished* *to* *steady* *himself* *by* *the* *table* *,* *dropped* *the* *revolver* *,* *reeled* *,* *and* *sat* *down* *on* *the* *floor* *,* *looking* *about* *him* *in* *astonishment* *.*
*He* *made* *an* *effort* *and* *understood* *that* *he* *was* *on* *the* *floor* *,* *and* *,* *seeing* *blood* *on* *the* *tiger-skin* *and* *on* *his* *hand* *,* *realized* *that* *he* *had* *tried* *to* *shoot* *himself* *.*
*In* *that* *smile* *also* *Karenin* *thought* *he* *saw* *himself* *and* *his* *position* *ridiculed* *.*
*He* *was* *vexed* *with* *his* *wife* *for* *not* *troubling* *about* *the* *charming* *baby* *,* *felt* *disinclined* *to* *go* *in* *and* *see* *her* *while* *in* *that* *frame* *of* *mind* *,* *and* *also* *disinclined* *to* *meet* *the* *Princess* *Betsy* *;* *but* *his* *wife* *might* *think* *it* *strange* *if* *he* *did* *not* *come* *in* *as* *usual* *,* *and* *so* *he* *mastered* *himself* *and* *went* *to* *her* *bedroom* *.*
*'* *Yes* *,* *but* *you* *ca* *n't* *but* *wish* *to* *say* *good-bye* *to* *a* *man* *who* *tried* *to* *shoot* *himself* *for* *your* *sake* *...* *'*
*Anna* *suddenly* *interrupted* *him* *,* *with* *an* *irritation* *she* *could* *not* *repress* *.* *'* *No* *need* *whatever* *,* *'* *she* *thought* *,* *'* *for* *a* *man* *to* *come* *and* *take* *leave* *of* *a* *woman* *he* *loves* *,* *for* *whose* *sake* *he* *wanted* *to* *die* *and* *has* *ruined* *himself* *,* *a* *woman* *who* *can* *not* *live* *without* *him* *!*
*She* *was* *agitatedly* *toying* *with* *the* *tassels* *of* *her* *dressing-gown* *,* *glancing* *at* *him* *with* *that* *tormenting* *feeling* *of* *physical* *repulsion* *for* *which* *she* *blamed* *herself* *,* *but* *which* *she* *could* *not* *overcome* *.*
*'* *Forgive* *me* *,* *I* *am* *upset* *!* *I* *am* *unjust* *,* *'* *she* *went* *on* *,* *controlling* *herself* *.*
*'* *No* *,* *it* *ca* *n't* *go* *on* *like* *that* *,* *'* *he* *told* *himself* *with* *conviction* *after* *leaving* *his* *wife* *.*
*You* *should* *rouse* *yourself* *,* *and* *look* *life* *straight* *in* *the* *face* *.*
*No* *one* *else* *in* *his* *place* *,* *having* *to* *deal* *with* *such* *despair* *,* *would* *have* *permitted* *himself* *to* *smile* *,* *for* *a* *smile* *would* *have* *appeared* *callous* *.* *But* *in* *his* *smile* *there* *was* *so* *much* *kindness* *and* *almost* *feminine* *tenderness* *that* *it* *was* *not* *offensive* *,* *but* *soothing* *and* *pacifying* *.*
*I* *feel* *that* *I* *am* *flying* *headlong* *over* *some* *precipice* *but* *must* *not* *even* *try* *to* *save* *myself* *.*
*Hard* *as* *it* *was* *for* *me* *to* *assure* *myself* *of* *this* *,* *I* *see* *that* *it* *is* *so* *,* *and* *there* *is* *no* *help* *for* *it* *.*
*I* *submit* *myself* *entirely* *to* *your* *wishes* *and* *sense* *of* *justice* *.* *'*
*'* *I* *am* *afraid* *she* *does* *not* *understand* *her* *position* *herself* *.* *She* *is* *no* *judge* *of* *it* *,* *'* *replied* *Oblonsky* *,* *growing* *more* *composed* *.*
*To* *agree* *to* *a* *divorce* *-* *to* *give* *her* *her* *freedom* *-* *would* *mean* *,* *as* *he* *looked* *at* *it* *,* *to* *deprive* *himself* *of* *the* *only* *thing* *that* *bound* *him* *to* *life* *,* *the* *children* *he* *loved* *,* *and* *to* *deprive* *her* *of* *the* *last* *support* *on* *the* *path* *of* *virtue* *and* *cast* *her* *to* *perdition* *.*
*'* *I* *am* *not* *delirious* *...* *Please* *arrange* *so* *that* *no* *one* *shall* *say* *that* *I* *shot* *myself* *on* *purpose* *.* *'*
*Despite* *these* *words* *and* *that* *smile* *,* *which* *greatly* *perturbed* *Varya* *,* *when* *the* *inflammation* *left* *him* *and* *he* *became* *convalescent* *he* *felt* *that* *he* *had* *rid* *himself* *entirely* *of* *one* *part* *of* *his* *grief* *.*
*That* *now* *,* *having* *atoned* *for* *his* *guilt* *toward* *her* *husband* *,* *he* *would* *be* *obliged* *to* *give* *her* *up* *and* *never* *place* *himself* *between* *her* *with* *her* *remorse* *and* *her* *husband* *,* *was* *clear* *to* *his* *mind* *;* *but* *he* *could* *not* *eradicate* *from* *his* *heart* *a* *regret* *for* *the* *loss* *of* *her* *love* *-* *could* *not* *efface* *from* *his* *memory* *the* *moments* *of* *happiness* *he* *had* *known* *with* *her* *,* *moments* *he* *had* *valued* *so* *lightly* *,* *but* *the* *image* *of* *which* *with* *all* *their* *charm* *pursued* *him* *still* *.*
*His* *wound* *was* *quite* *healed* *and* *he* *went* *about* *making* *preparations* *for* *his* *journey* *to* *Tashkend* *.* *'* *Only* *to* *see* *her* *once* *more* *,* *and* *then* *to* *bury* *myself* *,* *to* *die* *!* *'* *he* *thought* *,* *as* *he* *was* *making* *a* *round* *of* *farewell* *calls* *,* *and* *he* *expressed* *this* *thought* *to* *Betsy* *.*
*Next* *day* *Betsy* *herself* *came* *and* *announced* *that* *she* *had* *received* *,* *through* *Oblonsky* *,* *the* *definite* *news* *that* *Karenin* *consented* *to* *a* *divorce* *and* *that* *therefore* *Vronsky* *might* *see* *Anna* *.*
*Anna* *had* *prepared* *herself* *for* *this* *meeting* *and* *had* *thought* *about* *what* *she* *would* *say* *to* *him* *;* *but* *she* *had* *no* *time* *to* *say* *any* *of* *it* *,* *seized* *by* *his* *passion* *.*
*His* *passion* *communicated* *itself* *to* *her* *.*
*But* *Oblonsky* *arranged* *that* *too* *.* *Levin* *began* *to* *prepare* *himself* *.*
*Again* *'* *Lordvmercypons* *!* *'* *thought* *he* *,* *crossing* *himself* *,* *bowing* *,* *and* *watching* *the* *movements* *of* *the* *bowing* *deacon* *'s* *flexible* *back* *.* *'* *Then* *she* *took* *my* *hand* *and* *examined* *the* *lines* *and* *said* *,* *``* *You* *have* *a* *splendid* *hand* *!* *''* *and* *he* *glanced* *at* *the* *deacon* *'s* *stumpy* *hand* *and* *at* *his* *own* *.*
*When* *he* *was* *alone* *,* *Levin* *,* *thinking* *over* *the* *remarks* *of* *the* *three* *bachelors* *,* *once* *more* *asked* *himself* *whether* *there* *was* *in* *his* *soul* *any* *of* *that* *regret* *for* *his* *freedom* *that* *they* *had* *been* *speaking* *about* *.*
*Supposing* *she* *does* *not* *herself* *know* *what* *she* *is* *doing* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *.* *'* *She* *might* *bethink* *herself* *and* *only* *when* *she* *is* *already* *married* *find* *out* *that* *she* *does* *not* *and* *never* *could* *love* *me* *...* *'*
*Three* *minutes* *later* *Levin* *,* *not* *looking* *at* *the* *clock* *to* *avoid* *upsetting* *himself* *still* *more* *,* *ran* *as* *fast* *as* *he* *could* *down* *the* *corridor* *.*
*On* *the* *day* *when* *,* *in* *the* *ballroom* *of* *the* *house* *in* *Arbat* *Street* *,* *she* *in* *her* *brown* *dress* *had* *gone* *up* *to* *him* *and* *silently* *plighted* *herself* *to* *him* *,* *on* *that* *day* *and* *in* *that* *hour* *a* *complete* *rupture* *seemed* *to* *have* *taken* *place* *within* *her* *soul* *between* *her* *former* *life* *and* *this* *other* *new* *and* *entirely* *unknown* *life* *-* *although* *in* *fact* *the* *old* *life* *still* *went* *on* *.*
*'* *They* *say* *that* *one* *who* *has* *been* *best* *man* *more* *than* *ten* *times* *never* *marries* *,* *and* *I* *wanted* *to* *be* *one* *for* *the* *tenth* *time* *to* *make* *myself* *safe* *,* *but* *was* *too* *late* *,* *'* *Count* *Sinyavin* *was* *saying* *to* *the* *pretty* *young* *Princess* *Charskaya* *,* *who* *had* *designs* *on* *him* *.*
*After* *the* *usual* *questions* *of* *whether* *they* *wished* *to* *be* *married* *and* *whether* *they* *had* *promised* *themselves* *to* *others* *,* *and* *their* *answers* *,* *which* *sounded* *strange* *to* *themselves* *,* *the* *second* *part* *of* *the* *service* *began* *.*
*Vronsky* *would* *never* *have* *thought* *he* *could* *be* *so* *pleased* *to* *see* *Golenishchev* *,* *but* *probably* *he* *was* *himself* *unaware* *how* *bored* *he* *was* *.*
*During* *the* *three* *months* *he* *had* *spent* *abroad* *with* *Anna* *,* *Vronsky* *when* *coming* *across* *new* *people* *had* *always* *asked* *himself* *how* *the* *new* *person* *would* *be* *likely* *to* *regard* *his* *relations* *with* *Anna* *,* *and* *in* *most* *cases* *he* *had* *found* *that* *the* *men* *he* *met* *understood* *it* *in* *the* *'* *right* *'* *way* *.*
*At* *bottom* *,* *those* *who* *in* *Vronsky* *'s* *opinion* *understood* *it* *the* *'* *right* *'* *way* *did* *not* *understand* *it* *in* *any* *special* *way* *,* *but* *behaved* *in* *general* *as* *well-bred* *persons* *do* *with* *regard* *to* *all* *the* *complicated* *and* *unanswerable* *problems* *which* *surround* *life* *on* *every* *side* *:* *they* *conducted* *themselves* *properly* *,* *avoiding* *insinuations* *and* *inconvenient* *questions* *.*
*What* *most* *displeased* *him* *was* *that* *Golenishchev* *,* *a* *man* *belonging* *to* *good* *Society* *,* *should* *put* *himself* *an* *the* *same* *level* *with* *certain* *scribblers* *who* *irritated* *him* *and* *made* *him* *angry* *.*
*With* *an* *effort* *Golenishchev* *recollected* *himself* *,* *but* *he* *was* *at* *first* *dejected* *and* *morose* *.* *Anna* *however* *,* *who* *at* *that* *time* *was* *amiably* *disposed* *to* *every* *one* *,* *soon* *revived* *him* *by* *her* *simple* *and* *cheerful* *behaviour* *.*
*She* *was* *not* *conscious* *of* *degradation* *.* *With* *the* *tact* *they* *both* *possessed* *,* *and* *by* *avoiding* *Russian* *ladies* *abroad* *,* *the* *two* *never* *placed* *themselves* *in* *a* *false* *position* *and* *always* *met* *people* *who* *pretended* *to* *understand* *their* *mutual* *relations* *much* *better* *than* *they* *themselves* *understood* *them* *.*
*Formerly* *,* *'* *Golenishchev* *went* *on* *,* *either* *not* *noticing* *or* *not* *wishing* *to* *notice* *that* *both* *Anna* *and* *Vronsky* *wanted* *to* *speak* *,* *'* *formerly* *a* *freethinker* *was* *a* *man* *brought* *up* *with* *ideas* *of* *religion* *,* *law* *,* *and* *morality* *,* *who* *himself* *,* *through* *struggle* *and* *pain* *,* *had* *attained* *freedom* *of* *thought* *;* *hut* *now* *a* *new* *type* *of* *born* *freethinkers* *has* *appeared* *.* *These* *grow* *up* *without* *so* *much* *as* *hearing* *that* *there* *used* *to* *be* *laws* *of* *morality* *and* *religion* *,* *and* *that* *there* *was* *once* *authority* *in* *these* *things* *;* *they* *grow* *up* *simply* *with* *the* *idea* *of* *negation* *-* *that* *is* *,* *as* *heathens* *.*
*Golenishchev* *pulled* *himself* *up* *and* *unwillingly* *agreed* *,* *but* *as* *the* *artist* *lived* *in* *a* *distant* *part* *of* *the* *town* *they* *decided* *to* *hire* *a* *carriage* *.*
*'* *Shut* *up* *,* *for* *heaven* *'s* *sake* *!* *'* *cried* *Mikhaylov* *with* *tears* *in* *his* *voice* *,* *stopping* *his* *ears* *with* *his* *hands* *as* *he* *went* *into* *his* *workroom* *behind* *a* *partition* *and* *locked* *the* *door* *behind* *him* *.* *'* *What* *a* *duffer* *!* *'* *he* *muttered* *to* *himself* *as* *he* *seated* *himself* *at* *the* *table* *,* *and* *having* *opened* *a* *portfolio* *he* *at* *once* *set* *to* *work* *with* *particular* *ardour* *at* *an* *unfinished* *drawing* *.*
*He* *always* *attributed* *to* *those* *judges* *a* *better* *understanding* *than* *his* *own* *,* *and* *always* *expected* *to* *hear* *from* *them* *something* *he* *had* *himself* *not* *noticed* *in* *his* *work* *,* *often* *fancying* *that* *in* *their* *criticisms* *he* *had* *really* *found* *that* *something* *.*
*He* *was* *himself* *unconscious* *that* *as* *he* *approached* *them* *he* *seized* *and* *absorbed* *this* *impression* *,* *just* *as* *he* *had* *retained* *the* *tobacconist* *'s* *chin* *and* *hidden* *it* *away* *where* *he* *could* *find* *it* *when* *it* *was* *wanted* *.*
*And* *the* *most* *experienced* *and* *technical* *painter* *could* *never* *paint* *anything* *by* *means* *of* *mechanical* *skill* *alone* *,* *if* *the* *outline* *of* *the* *subject-matter* *did* *not* *first* *reveal* *itself* *to* *his* *mind* *.*
*At* *length* *,* *tearing* *himself* *away* *from* *it* *regretfully* *,* *he* *let* *the* *sheet* *fall* *over* *the* *picture* *and* *went* *home* *,* *tired* *but* *happy* *.*
*The* *same* *thing* *happened* *to* *him* *as* *to* *Golenishchev* *,* *who* *,* *feeling* *that* *he* *had* *nothing* *to* *express* *,* *continually* *deceived* *himself* *by* *saying* *that* *his* *thought* *had* *not* *yet* *ripened* *and* *that* *he* *was* *bringing* *it* *to* *maturity* *and* *preparing* *materials* *.*
*But* *Golenishchev* *was* *embittered* *and* *tormented* *by* *it* *,* *while* *Vronsky* *could* *not* *deceive* *and* *torment* *himself* *,* *and* *above* *all* *could* *not* *become* *embittered* *.*
*At* *every* *step* *he* *took* *he* *felt* *as* *a* *man* *would* *feel* *who* *,* *after* *admiring* *the* *smooth* *happy* *motion* *of* *a* *little* *boat* *upon* *the* *water* *,* *had* *himself* *got* *into* *the* *boat* *.*
*Without* *herself* *knowing* *why* *or* *wherefore* *,* *the* *management* *of* *the* *house* *attracted* *her* *irresistibly* *.*
*Levin* *had* *never* *thought* *it* *possible* *that* *between* *him* *and* *his* *wife* *there* *could* *ever* *be* *any* *but* *tender* *,* *respectful* *,* *and* *loving* *relations* *,* *and* *yet* *from* *the* *very* *beginning* *they* *had* *quarrelled* *:* *she* *had* *said* *he* *did* *not* *love* *her* *,* *but* *only* *loved* *himself* *,* *and* *began* *to* *cry* *and* *wave* *her* *arms* *.*
*For* *a* *moment* *he* *felt* *like* *a* *man* *who* *,* *receiving* *a* *blow* *from* *behind* *,* *angrily* *and* *revengefully* *turns* *round* *to* *find* *his* *assailant* *and* *realizes* *that* *he* *has* *accidentally* *knocked* *himself* *,* *that* *there* *is* *no* *one* *to* *be* *angry* *with* *and* *that* *he* *must* *endure* *and* *try* *to* *still* *the* *pain* *.*
*His* *natural* *feelings* *prompted* *him* *to* *justify* *himself* *and* *prove* *that* *she* *was* *in* *the* *wrong* *;* *but* *to* *prove* *her* *in* *the* *wrong* *would* *mean* *irritating* *her* *still* *more* *,* *and* *widening* *the* *breach* *which* *was* *the* *cause* *of* *all* *the* *trouble* *.*
*To* *remain* *under* *so* *unjust* *an* *accusation* *was* *painful* *,* *but* *to* *justify* *himself* *and* *hurt* *her* *would* *be* *still* *worse* *.*
*In* *his* *heart* *he* *blamed* *her* *,* *but* *he* *did* *not* *understand* *that* *she* *was* *preparing* *herself* *for* *a* *period* *of* *activity* *which* *was* *inevitably* *coming* *,* *when* *at* *one* *and* *the* *same* *time* *she* *would* *be* *her* *husband* *'s* *wife* *,* *the* *mistress* *of* *the* *house* *,* *and* *a* *bearer* *,* *nurturer* *,* *and* *educator* *of* *her* *children* *.*
*He* *did* *not* *understand* *that* *,* *but* *she* *knew* *it* *instinctively* *;* *and* *while* *getting* *ready* *for* *her* *gigantic* *task* *she* *did* *not* *reproach* *herself* *for* *the* *moments* *of* *careless* *and* *happy* *love* *that* *she* *now* *enjoyed* *while* *building* *her* *nest* *for* *the* *future* *.*
*Levin* *blushed* *with* *shame* *and* *vexation* *at* *his* *wife* *for* *having* *placed* *herself* *and* *him* *in* *this* *awkward* *position* *;* *but* *Mary* *Nikolavna* *blushed* *still* *more* *.*
*He* *had* *expected* *to* *feel* *the* *same* *sorrow* *at* *the* *loss* *of* *a* *loved* *brother* *and* *the* *same* *horror* *of* *death* *he* *had* *then* *experienced* *,* *but* *to* *a* *greater* *degree* *,* *and* *had* *prepared* *himself* *for* *all* *this* *;* *but* *what* *he* *found* *was* *quite* *different* *.*
*Taking* *advantage* *of* *the* *first* *moment* *of* *silence* *,* *Levin* *got* *up* *,* *wishing* *to* *free* *himself* *if* *only* *for* *a* *few* *minutes* *from* *his* *painful* *sensations* *,* *and* *said* *he* *would* *fetch* *his* *wife* *.*
*She* *sent* *for* *the* *doctor* *,* *sent* *to* *the* *chemist* *'s* *,* *made* *the* *maid* *she* *had* *brought* *with* *her* *help* *Mary* *Nikolavna* *sweep* *,* *dust* *,* *and* *wash* *;* *and* *herself* *washed* *and* *scrubbed* *some* *articles* *and* *spread* *something* *under* *the* *blanket* *.* *At* *her* *command* *things* *were* *brought* *in* *and* *taken* *out* *of* *the* *sick-room* *.*
*The* *invalid* *himself* *,* *washed* *and* *with* *his* *hair* *brushed* *,* *lay* *between* *clean* *sheets* *in* *a* *clean* *shirt* *,* *its* *white* *collar* *round* *his* *abnormally* *thin* *neck* *,* *gazing* *with* *a* *new* *look* *of* *hope* *at* *Kitty* *and* *not* *taking* *his* *eyes* *off* *her* *.*
*He* *thought* *of* *the* *Gospel* *text* *not* *because* *he* *considered* *himself* *wise* *-* *he* *did* *not* *-* *but* *because* *he* *could* *not* *help* *knowing* *that* *he* *was* *more* *intelligent* *than* *his* *wife* *and* *Agatha* *Mikhaylovna* *;* *he* *could* *not* *help* *knowing* *that* *when* *he* *thought* *about* *death* *he* *thought* *with* *all* *the* *powers* *of* *his* *soul* *.*
*He* *said* *,* *addressing* *himself* *to* *God* *,* *'* *If* *Thou* *dost* *exist* *,* *heal* *this* *man* *(* *such* *things* *have* *often* *happened* *)* *,* *and* *Thou* *wilt* *save* *both* *him* *and* *me* *!* *'*
*But* *you* *and* *I* *can* *not* *deceive* *ourselves* *like* *that* *!*
*Even* *the* *memories* *,* *impressions* *,* *and* *thoughts* *,* *within* *his* *body* *now* *aroused* *in* *him* *the* *same* *sort* *of* *repulsion* *as* *the* *body* *itself* *.*
*Those* *about* *him* *felt* *this* *,* *and* *unconsciously* *did* *not* *permit* *themselves* *either* *to* *move* *freely* *,* *talk* *or* *express* *their* *own* *wishes* *in* *his* *presence* *.*
*The* *prayers* *were* *not* *yet* *ended* *when* *the* *dying* *man* *stretched* *himself* *;* *sighed* *and* *opened* *his* *eyes* *.*
*Scarcely* *had* *the* *unexplained* *mystery* *of* *death* *been* *enacted* *before* *his* *eyes* *when* *another* *mystery* *just* *as* *inexplicable* *presented* *itself* *,* *calling* *to* *love* *and* *life* *.*
*FROM* *THE* *MOMENT* *THAT* *KARENIN* *UNDERSTOOD* *from* *his* *conversations* *with* *Betsy* *and* *Oblonsky* *that* *all* *that* *was* *asked* *of* *him* *was* *that* *he* *should* *leave* *his* *wife* *in* *peace* *and* *not* *trouble* *her* *with* *his* *presence* *and* *that* *his* *wife* *herself* *wished* *this* *,* *he* *felt* *so* *lost* *that* *he* *could* *decide* *nothing* *for* *himself* *,* *did* *not* *know* *what* *he* *now* *wanted* *,* *and* *having* *placed* *himself* *in* *the* *hands* *of* *those* *who* *with* *so* *much* *pleasure* *busied* *themselves* *with* *his* *affairs* *,* *he* *consented* *to* *everything* *.*
*Had* *his* *wife* *then* *,* *after* *confessing* *her* *infidelity* *,* *left* *him* *,* *he* *would* *have* *been* *grieved* *and* *unhappy* *,* *but* *he* *would* *not* *have* *felt* *himself* *to* *be* *in* *such* *an* *unintelligible* *impasse* *as* *now* *.*
*But* *if* *you* *wish* *us* *to* *address* *ourselves* *to* *her* *Excellency* *,* *please* *be* *so* *good* *as* *to* *let* *us* *have* *her* *address* *!* *'*
*He* *knew* *that* *the* *only* *way* *of* *escape* *from* *men* *was* *to* *hide* *his* *wounds* *from* *them* *.* *He* *had* *unconsciously* *tried* *to* *do* *so* *for* *two* *days* *,* *and* *now* *felt* *himself* *unable* *to* *continue* *the* *unequal* *struggle* *.*
*Having* *taken* *a* *medal* *on* *finishing* *,* *both* *at* *school* *and* *at* *the* *university* *,* *Karenin* *,* *by* *his* *uncle* *'s* *help* *,* *started* *at* *once* *on* *a* *conspicuous* *path* *in* *the* *Civil* *Service* *,* *and* *from* *that* *time* *devoted* *himself* *entirely* *to* *official* *ambition* *.*
*He* *could* *not* *think* *of* *that* *bill* *,* *made* *out* *on* *blue* *paper* *for* *a* *bonnet* *and* *ribbons* *,* *without* *pitying* *himself* *.*
*He* *was* *a* *believer* *,* *interested* *in* *religion* *chiefly* *from* *a* *political* *point* *of* *view* *,* *and* *this* *new* *teaching* *which* *allowed* *itself* *some* *novel* *interpretation* *,* *just* *because* *it* *paved* *the* *way* *for* *disputes* *and* *analyses* *,* *was* *repugnant* *to* *him* *on* *principle* *.*
*He* *saw* *nothing* *impossible* *or* *incongruous* *in* *the* *notion* *that* *death* *which* *exists* *for* *the* *unbeliever* *did* *not* *exist* *for* *him* *,* *and* *that* *as* *he* *possessed* *complete* *faith* *-* *of* *the* *measure* *of* *which* *he* *himself* *was* *the* *judge* *-* *there* *was* *no* *longer* *any* *sin* *in* *his* *soul* *,* *and* *he* *already* *experienced* *complete* *salvation* *here* *on* *earth* *.*
*But* *from* *the* *time* *she* *took* *Karenin* *under* *her* *special* *protection* *after* *his* *misfortune* *-* *from* *the* *time* *she* *exerted* *herself* *in* *his* *house* *,* *labouring* *for* *his* *welfare* *-* *she* *felt* *that* *all* *her* *other* *passions* *were* *unreal* *and* *that* *she* *now* *truly* *loved* *only* *Karenin* *.*
*She* *caught* *herself* *meditating* *on* *what* *might* *have* *been* *had* *she* *not* *married* *and* *had* *he* *been* *free* *.*
*I* *address* *myself* *to* *you* *,* *instead* *of* *to* *Alexis* *Alexandrovich* *,* *only* *because* *I* *do* *not* *wish* *to* *give* *pain* *to* *that* *high-minded* *man* *by* *reminding* *him* *of* *myself* *.*
*Then* *she* *had* *wished* *to* *adorn* *herself* *somehow* *,* *the* *more* *the* *better* *;* *now* *,* *on* *the* *contrary* *,* *she* *was* *obliged* *to* *be* *adorned* *so* *unsuitably* *to* *her* *age* *and* *figure* *,* *that* *she* *was* *only* *concerned* *that* *the* *incongruity* *between* *these* *adornments* *and* *her* *own* *appearance* *should* *not* *be* *too* *dreadful* *.*
*Never* *having* *occupied* *himself* *with* *educational* *matters* *before* *,* *he* *devoted* *some* *time* *to* *studying* *the* *matter* *theoretically* *.* *After* *reading* *several* *books* *on* *anthropology* *,* *pedagogics* *,* *and* *didactics* *,* *he* *formed* *a* *plan* *of* *education* *,* *and* *having* *engaged* *the* *best* *Petersburg* *educationalist* *for* *supervision* *,* *he* *set* *to* *work* *.*
*'* *Well* *,* *now* *we* *can* *sit* *down* *quietly* *,* *'* *said* *she* *with* *an* *agitated* *smile* *,* *as* *she* *squeezed* *herself* *in* *between* *the* *table* *and* *sofa* *,* *'* *and* *have* *a* *chat* *over* *our* *tea* *.* *'*
*'* *But* *wherein* *am* *I* *to* *blame* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *,* *and* *as* *usual* *that* *question* *suggested* *another* *:* *Did* *those* *others* *-* *those* *Vronskys* *and* *Oblonskys* *and* *those* *fat-calved* *chamberlains* *-* *feel* *differently* *,* *love* *differently* *,* *marry* *differently* *?*
*He* *drove* *these* *thoughts* *from* *him* *,* *and* *tried* *to* *convince* *himself* *that* *he* *was* *not* *living* *for* *the* *present* *temporal* *life* *but* *for* *eternal* *life* *,* *and* *that* *his* *soul* *was* *full* *of* *peace* *and* *love* *.*
*Why* *does* *he* *repulse* *me* *?* *Why* *does* *he* *not* *love* *me* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *sadly* *,* *and* *could* *find* *no* *answer* *.*
*You* *see* *,* *if* *you* *take* *pains* *and* *learn* *in* *order* *to* *get* *a* *reward* *,* *the* *work* *will* *seem* *hard* *;* *but* *when* *you* *work* *'* *(* *Karenin* *said* *this* *remembering* *how* *he* *had* *sustained* *himself* *that* *morning* *by* *a* *sense* *of* *duty* *in* *the* *dull* *task* *of* *signing* *a* *hundred* *and* *eighteen* *papers* *)* *-* *'* *if* *you* *love* *your* *work* *,* *you* *will* *find* *your* *reward* *in* *that* *.* *'*
*It* *was* *the* *same* *long-familiar* *tone* *in* *which* *his* *father* *always* *addressed* *him* *,* *and* *to* *which* *Serezha* *had* *already* *learnt* *to* *adapt* *himself* *.*
*He* *spent* *all* *the* *evening* *working* *,* *and* *dreaming* *how* *a* *windmill* *could* *be* *made* *on* *which* *one* *could* *ride* *,* *either* *by* *seizing* *one* *of* *the* *sails* *or* *by* *tying* *oneself* *to* *it* *and* *spinning* *round* *.*
*He* *did* *not* *think* *about* *his* *mother* *all* *the* *evening* *;* *but* *when* *in* *bed* *he* *suddenly* *remembered* *her* *,* *and* *prayed* *in* *his* *own* *words* *that* *tomorrow* *,* *on* *his* *birthday* *,* *she* *should* *stop* *hiding* *herself* *and* *should* *come* *to* *him* *.*
*Despite* *all* *his* *experience* *of* *the* *world* *,* *Vronsky* *,* *in* *the* *new* *position* *in* *which* *he* *found* *himself* *,* *was* *making* *a* *terrible* *mistake* *.*
*Vronsky* *understood* *that* *it* *was* *vain* *to* *make* *any* *further* *attempts* *and* *that* *they* *would* *have* *to* *spend* *those* *few* *days* *in* *Petersburg* *as* *in* *a* *strange* *town* *,* *avoiding* *contact* *with* *their* *former* *world* *in* *order* *not* *to* *lay* *themselves* *open* *to* *unpleasantnesses* *and* *insults* *which* *were* *so* *painful* *to* *him* *.*
*She* *did* *not* *ask* *herself* *how* *she* *should* *contrive* *it* *.*
*It* *seemed* *to* *her* *natural* *and* *simple* *that* *she* *should* *see* *her* *son* *when* *she* *was* *in* *the* *same* *town* *with* *him* *.* *But* *on* *reaching* *Petersburg* *her* *present* *social* *position* *presented* *itself* *clearly* *to* *her* *,* *and* *she* *realized* *that* *it* *would* *be* *difficult* *to* *arrange* *the* *meeting* *.*
*To* *meet* *her* *son* *when* *he* *was* *out* *for* *a* *walk* *,* *after* *finding* *out* *when* *and* *where* *he* *went* *,* *was* *not* *enough* *:* *she* *had* *been* *preparing* *herself* *so* *for* *that* *meeting* *,* *had* *so* *much* *to* *say* *to* *him* *,* *and* *so* *much* *wanted* *to* *embrace* *and* *kiss* *him* *!*
*Never* *had* *she* *felt* *so* *humiliated* *as* *when* *,* *having* *called* *in* *the* *commissionaire* *,* *she* *heard* *from* *him* *the* *full* *account* *of* *how* *he* *had* *waited* *and* *had* *then* *been* *told* *that* *there* *would* *be* *no* *answer* *.* *Anna* *felt* *herself* *humiliated* *and* *wounded* *,* *but* *she* *saw* *that* *the* *Countess* *Lydia* *Ivanovna* *was* *right* *from* *her* *own* *point* *of* *view* *.*
*The* *Countess* *'s* *silence* *had* *made* *her* *feel* *humble* *,* *but* *the* *letter* *and* *what* *she* *read* *between* *its* *lines* *so* *irritated* *her* *,* *its* *malevolence* *seemed* *so* *revolting* *when* *compared* *with* *her* *passionate* *and* *legitimate* *love* *for* *her* *son* *,* *that* *she* *became* *indignant* *with* *others* *and* *ceased* *to* *blame* *herself* *.*
*Noticing* *the* *stranger* *'s* *confusion* *,* *Kapitonich* *himself* *came* *out* *,* *admitted* *her* *,* *and* *inquired* *what* *she* *wanted* *.*
*To* *the* *right* *of* *the* *door* *stood* *a* *bed* *on* *which* *sat* *the* *boy* *,* *his* *nightshirt* *unbuttoned* *,* *bending* *his* *little* *body* *backward* *,* *stretching* *himself* *and* *finishing* *his* *yawn* *.*
*He* *raised* *himself* *again* *on* *his* *elbow* *,* *moved* *his* *tousled* *head* *from* *side* *to* *side* *as* *if* *seeking* *for* *something* *,* *and* *opened* *his* *eyes* *.*
*Sleepily* *smiling* *with* *closed* *eyes* *,* *he* *moved* *his* *plump* *hands* *from* *the* *back* *of* *his* *bed* *to* *her* *shoulders* *,* *leaning* *against* *her* *and* *enveloping* *her* *in* *that* *sweet* *scent* *of* *sleepiness* *and* *warmth* *which* *only* *children* *possess* *,* *and* *began* *rubbing* *himself* *against* *her* *neck* *and* *shoulder* *.*
*'* *Mama* *!* *Dearest* *,* *darling* *!* *'* *he* *shouted* *,* *again* *throwing* *himself* *upon* *her* *,* *and* *embracing* *her* *,* *as* *if* *he* *by* *now* *,* *having* *seen* *her* *smile* *,* *clearly* *realized* *what* *had* *happened* *.*
*'* *Oh* *,* *nurse* *dear* *,* *I* *did* *not* *know* *you* *were* *in* *the* *house* *,* *'* *said* *Anna* *,* *rousing* *herself* *for* *a* *moment* *.*
*GREATLY* *AS* *ANNA* *HAD* *DESIRED* *TO* *SEE* *HER* *SON* *,* *and* *long* *as* *she* *had* *thought* *of* *and* *prepared* *herself* *for* *the* *interview* *,* *she* *had* *not* *at* *all* *expected* *that* *it* *would* *affect* *her* *so* *powerfully* *.*
*If* *I* *know* *it* *,* *then* *I* *know* *what* *I* *shall* *do* *,* *'* *she* *told* *herself* *,* *powerless* *to* *imagine* *the* *position* *she* *would* *find* *herself* *in* *when* *she* *was* *convinced* *of* *his* *indifference* *.*
*And* *what* *is* *happening* *to* *her* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *.*
*The* *valet* *,* *conscious* *that* *he* *was* *not* *to* *blame* *,* *was* *about* *to* *defend* *himself* *,* *but* *,* *glancing* *at* *his* *master* *saw* *by* *his* *face* *that* *there* *was* *nothing* *for* *it* *but* *to* *keep* *silence* *;* *so* *,* *stooping* *quickly* *,* *he* *knelt* *on* *the* *carpet* *and* *began* *sorting* *out* *the* *whole* *and* *broken* *glasses* *and* *bottles* *.*
*Serpukhovskoy* *had* *long* *ago* *ceased* *to* *trouble* *himself* *about* *Vronsky* *'s* *career* *,* *but* *was* *as* *fond* *of* *him* *as* *ever* *and* *was* *particularly* *amiable* *to* *him* *now* *.*
*Those* *who* *did* *not* *know* *her* *and* *her* *set* *,* *and* *heard* *none* *of* *the* *expressions* *of* *pity* *,* *indignation* *,* *or* *surprise* *uttered* *by* *the* *women* *because* *she* *had* *allowed* *herself* *to* *appear* *in* *public* *and* *to* *show* *herself* *so* *ostentatiously* *in* *her* *lace* *head-dress* *and* *in* *all* *her* *beauty* *,* *admired* *the* *composure* *and* *loveliness* *of* *the* *woman* *,* *and* *did* *not* *suspect* *that* *she* *felt* *as* *though* *pilloried* *.*
*He* *was* *disturbed* *both* *by* *vexation* *with* *Anna* *for* *placing* *herself* *and* *him* *in* *this* *false* *position* *,* *and* *by* *pity* *for* *her* *sufferings* *.*
*'* *I* *always* *buy* *dress* *materials* *for* *the* *maids* *myself* *,* *at* *the* *sales* *,* *'* *the* *Princess* *said* *,* *continuing* *the* *conversation* *.* *'* *Is* *it* *not* *time* *to* *take* *the* *scum* *off* *,* *my* *dear* *?* *'* *she* *added* *,* *turning* *to* *Agatha* *Mikhaylovna* *.*
*The* *exact* *reverse* *,* *'* *she* *added* *,* *struck* *by* *her* *thought* *.* *'* *Then* *Anna* *was* *so* *happy* *and* *Kitty* *considered* *herself* *miserable* *.*
*'* *No* *,* *but* *he* *is* *so* *used* *to* *living* *a* *purely* *spiritual* *life* *that* *he* *can* *not* *reconcile* *himself* *to* *realities* *,* *and* *,* *after* *all* *,* *Varenka* *is* *a* *reality* *!* *'*
*She* *could* *not* *have* *expressed* *the* *sequence* *of* *thoughts* *that* *made* *her* *smile* *,* *but* *the* *last* *deduction* *was* *that* *her* *husband* *,* *in* *extolling* *his* *brother* *and* *depreciating* *himself* *,* *was* *not* *quite* *sincere* *.*
*How* *can* *you* *jump* *so* *!* *'* *he* *said* *,* *interrupting* *the* *conversation* *to* *rebuke* *her* *for* *making* *too* *quick* *a* *movement* *while* *stepping* *over* *a* *branch* *that* *lay* *across* *the* *path* *.* *'* *But* *when* *I* *examine* *myself* *and* *compare* *myself* *with* *others* *,* *especially* *with* *my* *brother* *,* *I* *feel* *how* *bad* *I* *am* *.* *'*
*His* *sense* *of* *pleasure* *at* *her* *nearness* *went* *on* *increasing* *until* *it* *reached* *a* *point* *where* *,* *when* *placing* *in* *her* *basket* *an* *enormous* *wood* *mushroom* *with* *a* *thin* *stem* *and* *up-curling* *top* *,* *he* *looked* *into* *her* *eyes* *and* *,* *noting* *the* *flush* *of* *joyful* *and* *frightened* *agitation* *that* *suffused* *her* *face* *,* *he* *himself* *became* *embarrassed* *and* *gave* *her* *a* *smile* *that* *said* *too* *much* *.*
*'* *If* *it* *is* *so* *,* *I* *must* *think* *it* *over* *and* *come* *to* *a* *decision* *,* *and* *not* *let* *myself* *be* *carried* *away* *like* *a* *boy* *by* *the* *impulse* *of* *the* *moment* *,* *'* *he* *told* *himself* *.*
*But* *it* *is* *nothing* *of* *the* *kind* *.* *The* *one* *thing* *I* *can* *find* *against* *it* *is* *that* *when* *I* *lost* *Marie* *I* *told* *myself* *that* *I* *would* *remain* *true* *to* *her* *memory* *.*
*But* *he* *came* *of* *a* *long-lived* *race* *,* *he* *had* *not* *a* *single* *grey* *hair* *,* *no* *one* *thought* *he* *was* *forty* *,* *and* *he* *remembered* *that* *Varenka* *had* *said* *it* *was* *only* *in* *Russia* *that* *men* *of* *fifty* *considered* *themselves* *old* *,* *and* *that* *in* *France* *a* *man* *of* *fifty* *considered* *himself* *dans* *la* *force* *de* *l* *'ge* *,* *[* *In* *the* *prime* *of* *life* *.* *]* *while* *one* *of* *forty* *was* *un* *jeune* *homme* *.*
*Varenka* *'s* *heart* *beat* *so* *that* *she* *seemed* *to* *hear* *it* *,* *and* *she* *felt* *herself* *growing* *red* *and* *then* *pale* *and* *red* *again* *.*
*They* *did* *not* *know* *that* *pleasant* *as* *it* *was* *for* *her* *to* *stay* *with* *her* *daughter* *and* *necessary* *as* *she* *felt* *herself* *to* *be* *there* *,* *she* *suffered* *keenly* *,* *both* *on* *her* *own* *and* *on* *her* *husband* *'s* *account* *,* *since* *they* *gave* *their* *last* *and* *favourite* *daughter* *in* *marriage* *and* *the* *family* *nest* *was* *left* *empty* *.*
*Levin* *offered* *to* *replace* *her* *,* *but* *having* *once* *heard* *Levin* *giving* *the* *lesson* *and* *noticing* *that* *he* *was* *not* *doing* *it* *the* *same* *way* *as* *the* *master* *who* *had* *coached* *the* *boy* *in* *Moscow* *,* *she* *-* *though* *embarrassed* *and* *anxious* *not* *to* *offend* *Levin* *-* *told* *him* *resolutely* *that* *the* *text-book* *must* *be* *followed* *in* *the* *master* *'s* *way* *and* *that* *she* *would* *rather* *give* *the* *lessons* *herself* *.*
*Levin* *was* *vexed* *with* *Oblonsky* *for* *carelessly* *leaving* *it* *to* *the* *boy* *'s* *mother* *to* *look* *after* *his* *lessons* *which* *she* *did* *not* *understand* *,* *instead* *of* *doing* *it* *himself* *,* *and* *he* *was* *vexed* *with* *the* *masters* *also* *for* *teaching* *the* *children* *so* *badly* *;* *but* *he* *promised* *his* *sister-in-law* *to* *give* *the* *lessons* *in* *the* *way* *she* *wished* *.*
*'* *Well* *,* *is* *there* *any* *game* *?* *'* *asked* *Oblonsky* *of* *Levin* *scarcely* *giving* *himself* *time* *to* *say* *a* *word* *of* *greeting* *to* *everybody* *.* *'* *He* *and* *I* *have* *the* *cruellest* *intentions* *...*
*'* *It* *'s* *very* *nice* *at* *their* *place* *,* *'* *Vasenka* *was* *saying* *,* *talking* *of* *Vronsky* *and* *Anna* *.* *'* *Of* *course* *I* *do* *not* *take* *it* *upon* *myself* *to* *judge* *,* *but* *in* *their* *house* *one* *feels* *oneself* *to* *be* *in* *a* *family* *.* *'*
*Already* *he* *fancied* *himself* *a* *deceived* *husband* *,* *necessary* *to* *his* *wife* *and* *her* *lover* *only* *to* *provide* *them* *with* *the* *comforts* *of* *life* *and* *with* *pleasures* *...*
*Happily* *for* *Levin* *the* *old* *Princess* *put* *a* *stop* *to* *his* *sufferings* *by* *herself* *getting* *up* *and* *advising* *Kitty* *to* *go* *to* *bed* *.*
*He* *stood* *before* *her* *,* *his* *eyes* *glittering* *terribly* *under* *his* *frowning* *brows* *,* *and* *pressed* *his* *powerful* *arms* *to* *his* *breast* *,* *as* *if* *trying* *with* *all* *his* *might* *to* *restrain* *himself* *.*
*'* *Come* *,* *Kostya* *,* *you* *are* *exaggerating* *!* *'* *remonstrated* *Kitty* *,* *at* *the* *bottom* *of* *her* *heart* *pleased* *by* *the* *force* *of* *love* *for* *her* *which* *was* *now* *expressing* *itself* *in* *his* *jealousy* *.*
*How* *could* *I* *torture* *myself* *like* *that* *about* *such* *nonsense* *?* *'*
*Levin* *jumped* *down* *from* *the* *cart* *where* *he* *had* *already* *seated* *himself* *,* *to* *meet* *the* *carpenter* *who* *was* *approaching* *with* *a* *sazhen* *measure* *in* *his* *hand* *.*
*'* *If* *only* *I* *do* *n't* *disgrace* *myself* *before* *that* *stranger* *!* *If* *only* *Oblonsky* *'s* *shooting* *does* *not* *beat* *mine* *!* *'* *was* *his* *thought* *.*
*Levin* *himself* *felt* *inclined* *to* *stop* *at* *those* *little* *places* *,* *but* *,* *as* *they* *were* *near* *home* *,* *they* *were* *always* *within* *his* *reach* *and* *they* *were* *small* *,* *so* *that* *there* *was* *not* *room* *enough* *for* *three* *persons* *to* *shoot* *there* *.*
*But* *when* *heated* *with* *the* *work* *,* *and* *seeing* *Veslovsky* *pulling* *at* *the* *splashboard* *so* *strenuously* *and* *zealously* *that* *he* *actually* *wrenched* *it* *off* *,* *Levin* *reproached* *himself* *with* *being* *influenced* *by* *his* *sentiments* *of* *the* *previous* *day* *and* *with* *treating* *Veslovsky* *too* *coldly* *,* *and* *he* *tried* *to* *efface* *his* *unfriendliness* *by* *particular* *courtesy* *.*
*When* *they* *got* *to* *the* *real* *marsh* *,* *the* *object* *of* *their* *journey* *,* *Levin* *involuntarily* *wished* *to* *rid* *himself* *of* *Vasenka* *and* *go* *about* *unhindered* *.*
*They* *kept* *rising* *before* *the* *dogs* *and* *at* *the* *very* *feet* *of* *the* *sportsmen* *,* *and* *Levin* *might* *have* *recovered* *himself* *;* *but* *the* *oftener* *he* *fired* *the* *more* *he* *disgraced* *himself* *before* *Veslovsky* *,* *who* *was* *puffing* *away* *merrily* *,* *in* *and* *out* *of* *range* *,* *never* *killing* *anything* *,* *but* *not* *in* *the* *least* *abashed* *thereby* *.*
*'* *No* *!* *I* *must* *pull* *myself* *together* *,* *'* *he* *thought* *,* *picked* *up* *his* *gun* *and* *hat* *,* *called* *Laska* *to* *heel* *,* *and* *got* *out* *of* *the* *marsh* *.*
*Despite* *the* *dirtiness* *of* *the* *hut* *,* *soiled* *by* *the* *sportsmen* *'s* *boots* *,* *the* *dirty* *dogs* *that* *were* *licking* *themselves* *there* *,* *and* *despite* *the* *smell* *of* *bog* *and* *of* *powder* *and* *the* *absence* *of* *knives* *and* *forks* *,* *the* *sportsmen* *drank* *tea* *and* *ate* *supper* *with* *a* *relish* *known* *only* *when* *one* *is* *out* *shooting* *.*
*Washed* *and* *clean* *they* *betook* *themselves* *to* *a* *half-barn* *that* *had* *been* *swept* *out* *and* *where* *the* *coachman* *had* *made* *up* *beds* *for* *the* *gentlemen* *.*
*Down* *,* *Krak* *!* *'* *exclaimed* *Oblonsky* *to* *the* *dog* *that* *was* *scratching* *itself* *and* *turning* *round* *in* *the* *hay* *.*
*'* *If* *only* *one* *could* *...* *go* *without* *getting* *up* *!* *'* *said* *Oblonsky* *,* *stretching* *himself* *.* *'* *It* *'s* *delightful* *to* *lie* *still* *.* *'*
*It* *seemed* *to* *him* *that* *he* *had* *expressed* *his* *thoughts* *and* *feelings* *as* *clearly* *as* *he* *could* *,* *yet* *both* *the* *others* *-* *sincere* *and* *not* *stupid* *men* *-* *had* *agreed* *that* *he* *was* *comforting* *himself* *with* *sophistry* *.*
*The* *words* *he* *had* *used* *when* *he* *said* *he* *was* *acting* *justly* *in* *a* *negative* *sense* *occupied* *his* *mind* *.* *'* *Is* *it* *possible* *that* *one* *can* *act* *justly* *only* *in* *a* *negative* *sense* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *.*
*'* *Do* *n't* *I* *see* *how* *you* *have* *placed* *yourself* *with* *your* *wife* *?*
*He* *heard* *his* *horses* *chewing* *hay* *;* *then* *how* *the* *master* *and* *his* *eldest* *son* *got* *ready* *and* *rode* *away* *for* *the* *night* *to* *pasture* *their* *horses* *;* *then* *how* *the* *soldier* *settled* *down* *to* *sleep* *on* *the* *other* *side* *of* *the* *barn* *with* *his* *nephew* *,* *their* *host* *'s* *little* *son* *;* *he* *heard* *the* *boy* *in* *his* *treble* *voice* *imparting* *to* *his* *uncle* *his* *impressions* *of* *the* *dogs* *,* *which* *seemed* *to* *him* *terrible* *and* *enormous* *;* *then* *how* *the* *boy* *asked* *what* *those* *dogs* *were* *going* *to* *catch* *,* *and* *he* *heard* *how* *the* *soldier* *replied* *in* *a* *hoarse* *and* *sleepy* *voice* *that* *the* *sportsmen* *would* *go* *next* *day* *to* *the* *marshes* *and* *fire* *guns* *,* *adding* *,* *to* *stop* *the* *questioning* *:* *'* *Sleep* *,* *Vaska* *,* *sleep* *,* *or* *else* *look* *out* *!* *'* *Soon* *the* *soldier* *himself* *began* *to* *snore* *,* *and* *all* *was* *still* *except* *for* *the* *neighing* *of* *the* *horses* *and* *the* *cry* *of* *snipe* *.*
*Crows* *were* *flying* *to* *the* *fields* *,* *and* *a* *barefooted* *boy* *was* *already* *driving* *the* *horses* *toward* *an* *old* *man* *,* *who* *had* *got* *up* *from* *beneath* *his* *coat* *and* *sat* *scratching* *himself* *.*
*He* *must* *say* *something* *to* *the* *mistress* *of* *the* *house* *,* *'* *Levin* *told* *himself* *.*
*Whether* *there* *was* *something* *unusual* *in* *Levin* *'s* *face* *,* *or* *whether* *Vasenka* *himself* *felt* *that* *'* *le* *petit* *brin* *de* *cour* *'* *which* *he* *had* *started* *was* *out* *of* *place* *in* *this* *family* *,* *he* *was* *embarrassed* *(* *as* *far* *as* *is* *permissible* *to* *a* *man* *in* *Society* *)* *by* *Levin* *'s* *entry* *.*
*Vasenka* *drew* *himself* *up* *.*
*He* *himself* *felt* *not* *only* *that* *he* *was* *in* *the* *highest* *degree* *ridiculous* *,* *but* *quite* *guilty* *and* *disgraced* *;* *but* *recalling* *what* *he* *and* *his* *wife* *had* *suffered* *,* *and* *asking* *himself* *how* *he* *would* *act* *another* *time* *,* *he* *answered* *that* *he* *would* *do* *just* *the* *same* *again* *.*
*I* *myself* *,* *without* *having* *a* *moment* *'s* *peace* *,* *now* *pregnant* *,* *now* *nursing* *,* *always* *cross* *and* *grumbling* *,* *tormenting* *myself* *and* *others* *,* *repulsive* *to* *my* *husband* *-* *I* *shall* *live* *my* *life* *,* *and* *produce* *unfortunate* *,* *badly* *brought-up* *and* *beggared* *children* *.*
*So* *I* *ca* *n't* *even* *give* *the* *children* *a* *start* *myself* *,* *unless* *it* *'s* *with* *other* *people* *'s* *help* *and* *with* *humiliation* *.*
*I* *was* *still* *attractive* *then* *,* *still* *had* *my* *good* *looks* *,* *'* *she* *went* *on* *,* *feeling* *that* *she* *wanted* *to* *see* *herself* *in* *a* *glass* *.*
*At* *Anna* *'s* *side* *,* *on* *a* *heated* *bay* *cavalry* *horse* *,* *stretching* *out* *his* *fat* *legs* *and* *evidently* *admiring* *himself* *,* *rode* *Vasenka* *Veslovsky* *,* *wearing* *the* *Scotch* *bonnet* *with* *waving* *ribbons* *,* *and* *Dolly* *could* *not* *repress* *a* *merry* *smile* *on* *recognizing* *him* *.*
*'* *Yes* *,* *quite* *big* *,* *'* *answered* *Dolly* *shortly* *,* *and* *was* *herself* *surprised* *that* *she* *could* *talk* *so* *coldly* *about* *her* *children* *.* *'* *We* *are* *very* *comfortable* *at* *the* *Levins* *'* *,* *'* *she* *added* *.*
*She* *was* *ashamed* *of* *the* *very* *patches* *and* *darns* *on* *which* *she* *at* *home* *prided* *herself* *.*
*A* *Russian* *nursemaid* *was* *feeding* *the* *child* *and* *evidently* *herself* *eating* *also* *.*
*On* *hearing* *Anna* *'s* *voice* *a* *smart* *tall* *Englishwoman* *with* *an* *unpleasant* *face* *and* *an* *impure* *look* *came* *into* *the* *room* *,* *rapidly* *shaking* *her* *fair* *curls* *,* *and* *at* *once* *began* *excusing* *herself* *,* *though* *Anna* *had* *not* *accused* *her* *of* *anything* *.*
*Glancing* *round* *at* *the* *grown-up* *people* *with* *her* *large* *radiant* *black* *eyes* *,* *like* *a* *little* *animal* *,* *evidently* *pleased* *that* *she* *was* *being* *admired* *,* *she* *smiled* *,* *and* *turning* *out* *her* *feet* *,* *energetically* *supported* *herself* *on* *her* *hands* *,* *drew* *her* *lower* *limbs* *forward* *,* *and* *then* *again* *advanced* *her* *hands* *.*
*Dolly* *was* *somewhat* *embarrassed* *and* *troubled* *by* *the* *quite* *novel* *circle* *she* *found* *herself* *in* *.*
*Shall* *we* *go* *?* *'* *he* *suggested* *,* *glancing* *at* *her* *face* *to* *assure* *himself* *that* *she* *really* *was* *not* *bored* *.*
*Everything* *interested* *Dolly* *and* *everything* *pleased* *her* *,* *especially* *Vronsky* *himself* *with* *his* *natural* *and* *naive* *enthusiasm* *.* *'* *Yes* *,* *he* *is* *a* *very* *nice* *,* *good* *fellow* *,* *'* *she* *thought* *again* *and* *again* *,* *not* *listening* *to* *him* *but* *looking* *at* *him* *,* *understanding* *his* *expression* *,* *and* *mentally* *putting* *herself* *in* *Anna* *'s* *place* *.*
*As* *soon* *as* *they* *had* *passed* *through* *the* *gate* *back* *into* *the* *garden* *,* *he* *glanced* *in* *the* *direction* *Anna* *had* *taken* *,* *and* *having* *assured* *himself* *that* *she* *could* *not* *hear* *or* *see* *them* *,* *he* *began* *.*
*'* *Well* *,* *to* *continue* *!* *'* *he* *said* *,* *recovering* *himself* *.* *'* *The* *principal* *thing* *is* *that* *when* *working* *I* *want* *the* *assurance* *that* *the* *work* *will* *not* *die* *with* *me* *,* *that* *I* *shall* *have* *heirs* *;* *and* *that* *I* *have* *not* *got* *.*
*'* *Well* *,* *this* *brings* *me* *to* *the* *point* *of* *my* *talk* *,* *'* *he* *went* *on* *,* *calming* *himself* *with* *an* *effort* *.* *'* *Anna* *can* *do* *it* *;* *.* *it* *depends* *on* *her* *...*
*But* *how* *is* *it* *she* *herself* *does* *not* *think* *of* *it* *?* *'* *asked* *Dolly* *,* *suddenly* *remembering* *that* *strange* *new* *habit* *Anna* *had* *of* *screwing* *up* *her* *eyes* *.* *And* *she* *remembered* *that* *it* *was* *just* *when* *the* *intimate* *side* *of* *life* *was* *in* *question* *that* *Anna* *screwed* *up* *her* *eyes* *.*
*We* *have* *dirtied* *ourselves* *on* *the* *buildings* *.* *'*
*The* *ladies* *rose* *;* *Vronsky* *asked* *Sviyazhsky* *to* *take* *in* *Anna* *,* *and* *himself* *went* *up* *to* *Dolly* *.*
*Dolly* *observed* *all* *this* *luxury* *,* *which* *was* *new* *to* *her* *,* *and* *,* *as* *a* *housewife* *herself* *controlling* *a* *household* *,* *she* *could* *not* *help* *noting* *the* *details* *(* *though* *she* *had* *no* *hope* *of* *putting* *what* *she* *observed* *to* *practical* *use* *in* *her* *own* *home* *,* *so* *far* *was* *such* *luxury* *above* *her* *way* *of* *life* *)* *and* *asking* *herself* *how* *it* *was* *all* *done* *and* *by* *whom* *.*
*He* *,* *as* *well* *as* *the* *other* *men* *,* *had* *with* *the* *ladies* *'* *permission* *taken* *off* *his* *coat* *,* *and* *his* *large* *handsome* *figure* *in* *white* *shirt-sleeves* *,* *his* *ruddy* *perspiring* *face* *and* *impetuous* *movements* *,* *stamped* *themselves* *on* *the* *memories* *of* *the* *onlookers* *.*
*She* *had* *come* *with* *the* *intention* *of* *staying* *two* *days* *if* *she* *could* *adapt* *herself* *to* *the* *life* *.*
*She* *wanted* *to* *reproduce* *the* *arguments* *with* *which* *she* *had* *so* *often* *convinced* *herself* *.*
*She* *rose* *,* *drew* *herself* *up* *,* *sighed* *deeply* *,* *and* *with* *her* *light* *steps* *began* *pacing* *up* *and* *down* *the* *room* *,* *pausing* *occasionally* *.* *'* *I* *not* *consider* *it* *?*
*But* *what* *would* *it* *mean* *?* *'* *said* *Anna* *,* *evidently* *expressing* *a* *thought* *she* *had* *considered* *a* *thousand* *times* *and* *knew* *by* *heart* *.* *'* *It* *means* *that* *I* *,* *who* *hate* *him* *but* *yet* *acknowledge* *myself* *to* *blame* *toward* *him* *-* *and* *I* *do* *think* *him* *magnanimous* *-* *I* *must* *humiliate* *myself* *by* *writing* *to* *him* *...* *!*
*She* *had* *pitied* *Anna* *from* *the* *bottom* *of* *her* *heart* *while* *they* *were* *talking* *;* *but* *now* *she* *could* *not* *make* *herself* *think* *about* *her* *.*
*When* *they* *had* *driven* *into* *the* *fields* *Dolly* *experienced* *a* *pleasant* *feeling* *of* *relief* *,* *and* *she* *was* *about* *to* *ask* *the* *men* *how* *they* *had* *liked* *the* *Vronskys* *'* *place* *,* *when* *suddenly* *Philip* *the* *coachman* *himself* *remarked* *:*
*As* *time* *went* *on* *,* *the* *oftener* *he* *felt* *himself* *caught* *in* *these* *meshes* *the* *more* *he* *desired* *,* *not* *exactly* *to* *escape* *from* *them* *but* *to* *try* *whether* *they* *really* *interfered* *with* *his* *freedom* *.*
*It* *was* *autumn* *,* *the* *dullest* *and* *most* *depressing* *time* *of* *year* *in* *the* *country* *,* *and* *so* *Vronsky* *,* *bracing* *himself* *for* *a* *struggle* *,* *announced* *his* *departure* *in* *a* *sterner* *and* *colder* *way* *than* *he* *had* *ever* *before* *used* *to* *Anna* *.*
*However* *,* *Levin* *had* *changed* *considerably* *since* *his* *marriage* *;* *he* *had* *become* *patient* *,* *and* *if* *he* *did* *not* *understand* *why* *things* *were* *arranged* *thus* *,* *he* *told* *himself* *that* *,* *not* *knowing* *everything* *,* *he* *could* *not* *judge* *,* *and* *that* *probably* *things* *had* *to* *be* *so* *;* *and* *he* *tried* *not* *to* *be* *indignant* *.*
*He* *was* *demanding* *the* *very* *thing* *Koznyshev* *was* *proposing* *;* *but* *he* *evidently* *hated* *Koznyshev* *and* *his* *party* *,* *and* *this* *hatred* *communicated* *itself* *to* *all* *those* *on* *his* *side* *,* *and* *in* *turn* *evoked* *a* *similar* *,* *though* *more* *decently* *expressed* *,* *feeling* *of* *conflicting* *anger* *from* *the* *opposing* *party* *.*
*But* *the* *old* *party* *did* *not* *consider* *itself* *defeated* *.*
*Whether* *those* *tears* *resulted* *from* *a* *consciousness* *of* *injustice* *done* *him* *,* *or* *from* *love* *for* *the* *Nobility* *,* *or* *from* *the* *strained* *situation* *in* *which* *he* *found* *himself* *,* *surrounded* *by* *enemies* *,* *at* *any* *rate* *his* *emotion* *communicated* *itself* *.* *The* *majority* *of* *the* *nobles* *were* *touched* *and* *Levin* *felt* *a* *tenderness* *for* *Snetkov* *.*
*The* *elections* *themselves* *interested* *him* *so* *much* *that* *he* *began* *to* *think* *that* *if* *he* *were* *married* *by* *the* *next* *triennial* *election* *he* *would* *himself* *put* *up* *,* *just* *as* *,* *when* *a* *jockey* *had* *won* *him* *a* *prize* *,* *he* *had* *wished* *to* *ride* *a* *race* *himself* *.*
*Nevedovsky* *pretended* *not* *merely* *to* *be* *indifferent* *to* *but* *to* *despise* *this* *title* *;* *but* *it* *was* *evident* *that* *he* *felt* *happy* *and* *exercised* *self-control* *to* *avoid* *betraying* *a* *delight* *ill-suited* *to* *the* *new* *Liberal* *circle* *in* *which* *they* *found* *themselves* *.*
*I* *wished* *to* *come* *myself* *,* *but* *changed* *my* *mind* *knowing* *that* *you* *would* *not* *like* *it* *.*
*Baby* *was* *ill* *,* *and* *she* *wished* *to* *come* *herself* *?*
*True* *,* *there* *was* *one* *means* *,* *not* *of* *holding* *him* *-* *for* *that* *purpose* *she* *wished* *for* *nothing* *except* *his* *love* *-* *but* *of* *putting* *herself* *in* *such* *a* *position* *that* *he* *could* *not* *abandon* *her* *.*
*'* *And* *you* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *,* *giving* *himself* *a* *shake* *.*
*'* *It* *was* *such* *a* *strange* *letter* *.* *Annie* *was* *ill* *,* *yet* *you* *wished* *to* *come* *yourself* *!* *'*
*Daily* *expecting* *Karenin* *'s* *reply* *,* *to* *be* *followed* *by* *a* *divorce* *,* *they* *now* *established* *themselves* *like* *a* *married* *couple* *.*
*The* *only* *thing* *Kitty* *could* *reproach* *herself* *with* *when* *that* *visit* *was* *over* *was* *that* *for* *an* *instant* *,* *on* *recognizing* *Vronsky* *'s* *once* *so* *familiar* *figure* *in* *his* *civilian* *clothes* *,* *she* *grew* *breathless* *,* *the* *blood* *rushed* *to* *her* *heart* *,* *and* *she* *felt* *a* *deep* *flush* *suffusing* *her* *face* *.*
*A* *stranger* *arrives* *,* *sits* *down* *,* *remains* *a* *while* *doing* *nothing* *,* *disturbs* *them* *,* *upsets* *himself* *,* *and* *goes* *away* *again* *.* *'*
*But* *afterwards* *,* *having* *convinced* *himself* *that* *they* *looked* *at* *the* *question* *so* *differently* *that* *they* *would* *never* *understand* *one* *another* *,* *he* *ceased* *making* *objections* *and* *merely* *listened* *.*
*He* *liked* *this* *phrase* *,* *but* *could* *not* *remember* *whether* *he* *had* *not* *used* *it* *before* *,* *and* *to* *Pestsov* *himself* *,* *and* *after* *saying* *it* *he* *grew* *embarrassed* *.*
*'* *Of* *course* *it* *'s* *all* *the* *same* *to* *me* *,* *but* *still* *it* *makes* *one* *ashamed* *,* *and* *it* *'s* *awfully* *stupid* *,* *'* *thought* *Levin* *,* *comforting* *himself* *with* *the* *reflection* *that* *everybody* *does* *it* *;* *and* *he* *went* *on* *to* *the* *meeting* *of* *the* *committee* *where* *he* *had* *to* *meet* *his* *sister-in-law* *in* *order* *to* *accompany* *her* *to* *his* *own* *home* *.*
*The* *military* *man* *,* *with* *merry* *,* *ever-laughing* *eyes* *,* *who* *held* *himself* *very* *erect* *,* *was* *Gagin* *,* *from* *Petersburg* *.*
*Only* *for* *the* *first* *few* *moments* *,* *while* *they* *were* *leaving* *the* *courtyard* *of* *the* *club* *,* *did* *Levin* *retain* *that* *sense* *of* *club* *calm* *,* *pleasure* *,* *and* *undoubted* *decorum* *in* *his* *surroundings* *;* *but* *as* *soon* *as* *the* *carriage* *had* *passed* *out* *into* *the* *street* *and* *he* *felt* *it* *jolting* *on* *the* *uneven* *road* *,* *heard* *the* *angry* *shouts* *of* *an* *izvoshchik* *they* *met* *,* *saw* *in* *the* *ill-lit* *street* *the* *red* *signboards* *of* *a* *vodka* *dealer* *and* *of* *a* *small* *shop* *,* *that* *sense* *was* *dissipated* *,* *and* *he* *began* *to* *consider* *his* *actions* *and* *to* *ask* *himself* *whether* *he* *was* *doing* *right* *in* *going* *to* *see* *Anna* *.*
*She* *is* *writing* *a* *children* *'s* *book* *and* *does* *not* *speak* *of* *it* *to* *anyone* *,* *but* *she* *read* *it* *to* *me* *and* *I* *showed* *the* *manuscript* *to* *Vorkuyev* *...* *You* *know* *,* *the* *publisher* *...* *he* *writes* *himself* *,* *I* *think* *.*
*While* *Oblonsky* *passed* *behind* *a* *screen* *of* *trellis-work* *-* *and* *the* *man* *'s* *voice* *that* *had* *been* *speaking* *became* *silent* *-* *Levin* *looked* *at* *the* *portrait* *,* *which* *in* *the* *bright* *illumination* *seemed* *to* *step* *out* *of* *its* *frame* *,* *and* *he* *could* *not* *tear* *himself* *away* *from* *it* *.*
*Levin* *flushed* *,* *and* *to* *hide* *his* *confusion* *was* *about* *to* *ask* *her* *if* *it* *was* *long* *since* *she* *had* *seen* *Dolly* *,* *but* *at* *that* *instant* *Anna* *herself* *began* *to* *speak* *.*
*'* *What* *a* *woman* *!* *'* *thought* *Levin* *,* *and* *,* *quite* *forgetting* *himself* *,* *he* *gazed* *fixedly* *at* *her* *beautiful* *mobile* *face* *,* *which* *had* *now* *suddenly* *quite* *changed* *.*
*They* *are* *very* *nice* *children* *,* *but* *I* *could* *not* *attach* *myself* *to* *the* *work* *.*
*She* *asked* *Levin* *and* *Vorkuyev* *to* *pass* *on* *into* *the* *drawing-room* *,* *and* *herself* *remained* *behind* *to* *speak* *to* *her* *brother* *.* *'* *About* *the* *divorce* *?*
*'* *It* *'s* *surprising* *how* *all* *one* *'s* *time* *gets* *taken* *up* *here* *,* *'* *he* *thought* *with* *reference* *to* *the* *second* *letter* *.* *He* *felt* *himself* *to* *blame* *because* *he* *had* *not* *yet* *done* *what* *his* *sister* *asked* *of* *him* *.*
*All* *the* *events* *had* *consisted* *of* *conversations* *:* *conversations* *to* *which* *he* *had* *listened* *or* *in* *which* *he* *had* *taken* *part* *.* *All* *these* *conversations* *were* *about* *matters* *he* *would* *never* *have* *occupied* *himself* *with* *had* *he* *been* *in* *the* *country* *,* *but* *here* *they* *were* *very* *interesting* *.*
*'* *Oh* *no* *!* *'* *she* *said* *,* *but* *he* *saw* *by* *her* *eyes* *the* *effort* *she* *made* *to* *control* *herself* *,* *and* *it* *boded* *him* *no* *good* *.*
*I* *restrain* *myself* *,* *wait* *,* *invent* *occupations* *for* *myself* *,* *-* *the* *English* *family* *,* *writing* *,* *reading* *,* *but* *all* *that* *is* *only* *deception* *,* *it* *is* *all* *a* *kind* *of* *morphia* *.*
*She* *might* *pity* *herself* *,* *but* *he* *must* *not* *pity* *her* *.*
*'* *Nothing* *,* *nothing* *!* *'* *she* *replied* *.* *'* *I* *do* *n't* *know* *myself* *whether* *it* *is* *this* *lonely* *life* *,* *or* *nerves* *...*
*THERE* *ARE* *NO* *CONDITIONS* *OF* *LIFE* *to* *which* *a* *man* *can* *not* *accustom* *himself* *,* *especially* *if* *he* *sees* *that* *every* *one* *around* *him* *lives* *in* *the* *same* *way* *.*
*Three* *months* *previously* *Levin* *would* *not* *have* *believed* *that* *he* *could* *quietly* *fall* *asleep* *under* *the* *circumstances* *in* *which* *he* *now* *found* *himself* *:* *that* *while* *leading* *an* *aimless* *,* *senseless* *life* *,* *one* *moreover* *that* *was* *above* *his* *means* *,* *after* *tippling* *(* *he* *could* *call* *what* *had* *happened* *in* *the* *club* *by* *no* *other* *name* *)* *,* *after* *showing* *unsuitable* *friendship* *to* *the* *man* *with* *whom* *his* *wife* *had* *once* *been* *in* *love* *,* *and* *after* *a* *still* *more* *unsuitable* *visit* *to* *a* *woman* *who* *could* *only* *be* *called* *a* *fallen* *woman* *,* *and* *after* *being* *allured* *by* *her* *and* *having* *grieved* *his* *wife* *-* *that* *in* *such* *circumstances* *he* *could* *quietly* *fall* *asleep* *.*
*It* *was* *necessary* *for* *him* *to* *go* *,* *but* *he* *could* *not* *tear* *himself* *away* *from* *the* *sight* *of* *her* *:* *He* *had* *loved* *that* *face* *and* *known* *all* *its* *expressions* *and* *looks* *,* *but* *he* *had* *never* *seen* *her* *as* *she* *was* *now* *.*
*He* *stopped* *at* *the* *door* *and* *heard* *Kitty* *give* *detailed* *instructions* *to* *the* *maid* *,* *and* *with* *her* *help* *herself* *move* *the* *bed* *.*
*To* *whom* *should* *he* *appeal* *,* *if* *not* *to* *Him* *in* *whose* *hands* *he* *felt* *himself* *,* *his* *soul* *,* *and* *his* *love* *,* *to* *be* *?*
*This* *attention* *to* *his* *glasses* *and* *indifference* *to* *what* *was* *taking* *place* *at* *the* *Levins* *'* *astonished* *Levin* *at* *first* *,* *but* *he* *immediately* *recollected* *himself* *and* *realized* *that* *no* *one* *knew* *or* *was* *bound* *to* *know* *his* *feelings* *,* *and* *that* *it* *was* *therefore* *all* *the* *more* *necessary* *to* *act* *calmly* *,* *deliberately* *,* *and* *firmly* *in* *order* *to* *break* *through* *this* *wall* *of* *indifference* *and* *to* *attain* *his* *aim* *.* *'* *Do* *not* *hurry* *and* *do* *not* *omit* *anything* *,* *'* *he* *said* *to* *himself* *,* *conscious* *of* *an* *increasing* *uplift* *of* *his* *physical* *powers* *and* *of* *his* *attention* *to* *all* *that* *lay* *before* *him* *.*
*Trying* *to* *be* *as* *exact* *as* *possible* *,* *Levin* *began* *recounting* *every* *unnecessary* *detail* *of* *his* *wife* *'s* *position* *,* *continually* *interrupting* *himself* *to* *beg* *the* *doctor* *to* *accompany* *him* *at* *once* *.*
*From* *the* *moment* *when* *he* *woke* *up* *and* *understood* *what* *was* *the* *matter* *Levin* *had* *braced* *himself* *to* *endure* *what* *might* *await* *him* *,* *without* *reasoning* *and* *without* *anticipating* *anything* *-* *firmly* *suppressing* *all* *his* *thoughts* *and* *feelings* *,* *determined* *not* *to* *upset* *his* *wife* *but* *on* *the* *contrary* *to* *calm* *and* *support* *her* *.*
*Not* *allowing* *himself* *even* *to* *think* *of* *what* *was* *about* *to* *happen* *and* *how* *it* *would* *end* *,* *judging* *by* *inquiries* *he* *had* *made* *as* *to* *the* *time* *such* *affairs* *usually* *lasted* *,* *Levin* *mentally* *prepared* *himself* *to* *endure* *and* *to* *keep* *his* *heart* *under* *restraint* *for* *something* *like* *five* *hours* *,* *which* *seemed* *to* *him* *within* *his* *power* *.*
*But* *after* *that* *hour* *another* *passed* *,* *a* *second* *,* *a* *third* *,* *and* *all* *the* *five* *hours* *that* *he* *had* *set* *himself* *as* *the* *longest* *term* *of* *possible* *endurance* *,* *and* *still* *the* *situation* *was* *unchanged* *;* *and* *he* *went* *on* *enduring* *,* *for* *there* *was* *nothing* *else* *to* *do* *but* *to* *endure* *-* *thinking* *every* *moment* *that* *he* *had* *reached* *the* *utmost* *limit* *of* *endurance* *and* *that* *in* *a* *moment* *his* *heart* *would* *burst* *with* *pity* *.*
*And* *every* *time* *when* *the* *screams* *that* *came* *from* *the* *bedroom* *roused* *him* *from* *momentary* *forgetfulness* *he* *succumbed* *to* *the* *same* *strange* *error* *that* *had* *possessed* *him* *in* *the* *first* *moments* *:* *every* *time* *,* *on* *hearing* *the* *scream* *,* *he* *jumped* *up* *and* *ran* *to* *justify* *himself* *,* *but* *recollected* *on* *the* *way* *that* *he* *was* *not* *to* *blame* *and* *that* *he* *longed* *to* *protect* *and* *help* *her* *.*
*And* *suddenly* *,* *out* *of* *the* *mysterious* *,* *terrible* *,* *and* *unearthly* *world* *in* *which* *he* *had* *been* *living* *for* *the* *last* *twenty-two* *hours* *,* *Levin* *felt* *himself* *instantaneously* *transported* *back* *to* *the* *old* *everyday* *world* *,* *but* *now* *radiant* *with* *the* *light* *of* *such* *new* *joy* *that* *it* *was* *insupportable* *.*
*And* *amid* *the* *silence* *,* *as* *a* *positive* *answer* *to* *the* *mother* *'s* *question* *,* *a* *voice* *quite* *unlike* *all* *the* *restrained* *voices* *that* *had* *been* *speaking* *in* *the* *room* *made* *itself* *heard* *.*
*He* *could* *not* *at* *all* *accustom* *himself* *to* *the* *idea* *.*
*Levin* *listened* *to* *them* *and* *at* *the* *same* *time* *involuntarily* *thought* *of* *the* *past* *and* *of* *what* *had* *been* *going* *on* *before* *that* *morning* *,* *remembering* *himself* *as* *he* *had* *been* *yesterday* *before* *this* *event* *.*
*He* *talked* *but* *never* *ceased* *thinking* *of* *his* *wife* *,* *of* *the* *details* *of* *her* *present* *condition* *,* *and* *of* *his* *son* *-* *to* *the* *idea* *of* *whose* *existence* *he* *painstakingly* *tried* *to* *accustom* *himself* *.*
*Kitty* *turned* *her* *eyes* *and* *gazed* *fixedly* *in* *the* *same* *direction* *.* *'* *Let* *me* *have* *him* *,* *let* *me* *have* *him* *!* *'* *she* *said* *,* *and* *was* *even* *going* *to* *raise* *herself* *.*
*I* *address* *myself* *to* *you* *not* *as* *...* *'* *He* *was* *going* *to* *say* *,* *'* *as* *an* *offended* *husband* *,* *'* *but* *,* *afraid* *of* *injuring* *his* *case* *thereby* *,* *he* *changed* *the* *expression* *to* *'* *not* *as* *a* *statesman* *'* *(* *this* *sounded* *inappropriate* *)* *'* *but* *simply* *as* *a* *man* *,* *a* *kind* *man* *and* *a* *Christian* *!*
*'* *For* *heaven* *'s* *sake* *do* *n't* *excite* *yourself* *,* *'* *said* *Oblonsky* *,* *touching* *his* *brother-in-law* *'s* *knee* *.* *'* *The* *matter* *is* *not* *closed* *.*
*She* *appreciated* *it* *to* *such* *a* *degree* *that* *,* *at* *the* *moment* *,* *feeling* *herself* *to* *blame* *toward* *you* *,* *she* *did* *not* *consider* *and* *could* *not* *consider* *everything* *.*
*He* *knew* *that* *his* *father* *and* *mother* *had* *had* *a* *quarrel* *which* *separated* *them* *;* *knew* *that* *it* *was* *his* *fate* *to* *remain* *with* *his* *father* *,* *and* *he* *tried* *to* *accustom* *himself* *to* *that* *thought* *.*
*The* *others* *all* *harness* *themselves* *to* *it* *-* *they* *may* *do* *it* *with* *their* *hands* *or* *their* *belts* *-* *and* *then* *off* *they* *go* *through* *all* *the* *rooms* *.*
*'* *I* *expect* *you* *hurt* *yourself* *when* *you* *fell* *down* *?* *'* *said* *the* *tutor* *.* *'* *I* *told* *you* *it* *was* *a* *dangerous* *game* *.*
*'* *If* *I* *had* *hurt* *myself* *no* *one* *would* *have* *known* *it* *,* *that* *is* *quite* *certain* *!* *'*
*Besides* *business* *-* *his* *sister* *'s* *divorce* *and* *his* *post* *-* *it* *was* *as* *usual* *necessary* *for* *him* *,* *as* *he* *said* *,* *to* *refresh* *himself* *in* *Petersburg* *after* *the* *mustiness* *of* *Moscow* *.*
*In* *Moscow* *he* *sometimes* *noticed* *some* *grey* *hairs* *;* *fell* *asleep* *after* *dinner* *;* *stretched* *himself* *;* *walked* *slowly* *upstairs* *,* *breathing* *heavily* *;* *felt* *dull* *among* *young* *women* *,* *and* *did* *not* *dance* *at* *balls* *.*
*In* *Moscow* *he* *let* *himself* *go* *to* *such* *an* *extent* *that* *,* *had* *he* *continued* *to* *live* *there* *long* *,* *he* *might* *even* *have* *come* *to* *the* *soul-saving* *stage* *;* *but* *in* *Petersburg* *he* *again* *felt* *quite* *a* *smart* *fellow* *.*
*Lydia* *Ivanovna* *rapidly* *read* *the* *note* *and* *,* *excusing* *herself* *,* *with* *extreme* *rapidity* *wrote* *and* *despatched* *the* *answer* *and* *returned* *to* *the* *table* *.* *'* *I* *have* *noticed* *,* *'* *she* *continued* *her* *interrupted* *sentence* *,* *'* *that* *Muscovites* *,* *men* *especially* *,* *are* *most* *indifferent* *to* *religion* *.* *'*
*He* *smoothed* *his* *whiskers* *to* *hide* *the* *yawn* *,* *and* *gave* *himself* *a* *shake* *.*
*But* *then* *he* *felt* *himself* *falling* *asleep* *,* *and* *nearly* *snored* *.*
*He* *roused* *himself* *,* *just* *when* *the* *Countess* *Lydia* *Ivanovna* *uttered* *the* *words* *:* *'* *He* *is* *asleep* *.* *'*
*He* *went* *up* *to* *the* *Frenchman* *and* *placed* *his* *hand* *in* *his* *.* *Oblonsky* *also* *rose* *and* *,* *opening* *his* *eyes* *wide* *to* *wake* *himself* *up* *in* *case* *he* *was* *asleep* *,* *looked* *first* *at* *one* *and* *then* *at* *the* *other* *.*
*It* *was* *an* *inner* *irritation* *,* *caused* *on* *her* *side* *by* *a* *diminution* *of* *his* *love* *for* *her* *,* *and* *on* *his* *by* *regret* *that* *for* *her* *sake* *he* *had* *placed* *himself* *in* *a* *distressing* *situation* *,* *which* *she* *,* *instead* *of* *trying* *to* *alleviate* *,* *made* *still* *harder* *.*
*To-day* *he* *had* *been* *away* *from* *home* *all* *day* *,* *and* *she* *had* *felt* *so* *lonely* *,* *and* *it* *was* *so* *painful* *to* *feel* *herself* *at* *discord* *with* *him* *,* *that* *she* *wished* *to* *forget* *it* *all* *,* *to* *forgive* *and* *make* *it* *up* *with* *him* *.* *Wishing* *even* *to* *blame* *herself* *and* *to* *justify* *him* *,* *she* *said* *to* *herself* *:*
*It* *was* *no* *longer* *the* *Queen* *of* *Sweden* *'s* *instructress* *but* *the* *Princess* *Sorokina* *who* *lived* *in* *the* *country* *near* *Moscow* *with* *the* *Countess* *Vronskaya* *who* *presented* *herself* *to* *Anna* *'s* *imagination* *.*
*For* *a* *moment* *she* *recollected* *herself* *and* *was* *horrified* *at* *having* *broken* *her* *resolution* *.*
*Yet* *though* *she* *knew* *she* *was* *ruining* *her* *cause* *,* *she* *could* *not* *restrain* *herself* *,* *could* *not* *forbear* *pointing* *out* *to* *him* *how* *wrong* *he* *was* *,* *and* *could* *not* *submit* *to* *him* *.*
*And* *standing* *before* *her* *he* *slowly* *brought* *out* *:* *'* *Why* *are* *you* *testing* *my* *patience* *?* *'* *He* *looked* *as* *if* *he* *could* *have* *said* *much* *more* *,* *but* *restrained* *himself* *.*
*'* *But* *how* *?* *'* *she* *asked* *herself* *,* *and* *sat* *down* *in* *the* *arm-chair* *before* *the* *looking-glass* *.*
*Thoughts* *of* *where* *she* *would* *now* *go* *:* *to* *the* *aunt* *who* *had* *brought* *her* *up* *,* *to* *Dolly* *,* *or* *simply* *abroad* *by* *herself* *;* *of* *what* *he* *was* *now* *doing* *,* *alone* *in* *the* *study* *;* *of* *whether* *this* *quarrel* *was* *final* *or* *whether* *a* *reconciliation* *was* *still* *possible* *;* *of* *what* *all* *her* *former* *Petersburg* *acquaintances* *would* *say* *of* *her* *now* *;* *how* *Karenin* *would* *regard* *it* *;* *and* *many* *other* *thoughts* *about* *what* *would* *happen* *now* *after* *the* *rupture* *,* *passed* *through* *her* *mind* *,* *but* *she* *did* *not* *give* *herself* *up* *entirely* *to* *these* *thoughts* *.*
*'* *You* *know* *yourself* *?* *'* *said* *she* *,* *and* *at* *the* *same* *moment* *,* *unable* *to* *restrain* *herself* *any* *longer* *,* *she* *burst* *into* *tears* *.*
*'* *Anna* *,* *why* *torture* *yourself* *and* *me* *like* *this* *?* *'* *he* *said* *,* *kissing* *her* *hands* *.*
*'* *Oh* *no* *,* *I* *shall* *not* *be* *ready* *myself* *,* *'* *she* *said* *,* *and* *immediately* *thought* *:* *'* *So* *it* *was* *possible* *to* *arrange* *things* *as* *I* *wished* *!* *'* *-* *'* *No* *,* *do* *as* *you* *wished* *to* *.* *Go* *to* *the* *dining-room* *,* *I* *will* *come* *directly* *.*
*'* *I* *never* *asked* *myself* *,* *Anna* *Arkadyevna* *,* *whether* *I* *am* *sorry* *or* *not* *.*
*In* *the* *morning* *a* *terrible* *nightmare* *,* *which* *had* *come* *to* *her* *several* *times* *even* *before* *her* *union* *with* *Vronsky* *,* *repeated* *itself* *and* *woke* *her* *.* *An* *old* *man* *with* *a* *tangled* *beard* *was* *leaning* *over* *some* *iron* *and* *doing* *something* *,* *while* *muttering* *senseless* *words* *in* *French* *;* *and* *as* *always* *in* *that* *nightmare* *(* *this* *was* *what* *made* *it* *terrible* *)* *she* *felt* *this* *peasant* *was* *paying* *no* *attention* *to* *her* *but* *was* *doing* *something* *dreadful* *to* *her* *with* *the* *iron* *.*
*She* *could* *not* *now* *understand* *how* *she* *could* *have* *humiliated* *herself* *so* *as* *to* *remain* *a* *whole* *day* *with* *him* *in* *his* *house* *.*
*Alarmed* *by* *the* *despairing* *look* *with* *which* *she* *had* *said* *these* *words* *,* *he* *jumped* *up* *,* *intending* *to* *run* *after* *her* *,* *but* *,* *recollecting* *himself* *,* *he* *sat* *down* *again* *,* *tightly* *clenching* *his* *teeth* *and* *frowning* *.*
*Oh* *!* *And* *did* *I* *brush* *my* *hair* *or* *not* *?* *'* *she* *asked* *herself* *;* *but* *could* *not* *remember* *.*
*'* *But* *what* *shall* *I* *do* *myself* *?* *'* *she* *thought* *.* *'* *Yes* *I* *will* *go* *to* *Dolly* *'s* *,* *of* *course* *,* *or* *else* *I* *shall* *go* *out* *of* *my* *mind* *!*
*'* *Yes* *,* *I* *will* *go* *,* *'* *said* *Anna* *,* *recovering* *and* *rousing* *herself* *;* *'* *and* *if* *a* *telegram* *comes* *during* *my* *absence* *,* *send* *it* *to* *Darya* *Alexandrovna* *'s* *...*
*She* *reproached* *herself* *now* *with* *the* *humiliation* *to* *which* *she* *had* *descended* *.* *'* *I* *entreated* *him* *to* *forgive* *me* *.*
*He* *may* *have* *missed* *the* *train* *and* *be* *back* *already* *.* *Wanting* *to* *humiliate* *yourself* *again* *!* *'* *she* *said* *to* *herself* *.*
*And* *of* *me* *he* *thinks* *with* *hate* *and* *regrets* *having* *joined* *himself* *to* *me* *!* *'*
*She* *attributed* *that* *animosity* *to* *the* *awkward* *position* *Anna* *,* *who* *had* *formerly* *patronized* *her* *,* *now* *felt* *herself* *to* *be* *in* *,* *and* *she* *was* *sorry* *for* *her* *.*
*ANNA* *RESEATED* *HERSELF* *IN* *THE* *CALCHE* *in* *a* *state* *of* *mind* *even* *worse* *than* *when* *she* *left* *home* *.*
*I* *do* *n't* *even* *know* *myself* *!* *"*
*They* *are* *ringing* *for* *vespers* *,* *and* *how* *carefully* *that* *tradesman* *is* *crossing* *himself* *,* *as* *if* *he* *were* *afraid* *of* *dropping* *something* *!*
*'* *I* *shall* *have* *time* *.* *'* *She* *gave* *the* *order* *to* *harness* *another* *pair* *of* *horses* *,* *and* *busied* *herself* *packing* *her* *handbag* *with* *things* *necessary* *for* *a* *few* *days* *.*
*He* *is* *weary* *of* *me* *and* *is* *trying* *not* *to* *act* *dishonourably* *toward* *me* *.* *Yesterday* *he* *betrayed* *himself* *-* *he* *wants* *the* *divorce* *and* *a* *marriage* *in* *order* *to* *burn* *his* *boats* *.*
*For* *me* *everything* *centres* *in* *him* *,* *and* *I* *demand* *that* *he* *should* *give* *himself* *up* *to* *me* *more* *and* *more* *completely* *.*
*No* *!* *'* *she* *now* *answered* *herself* *without* *the* *least* *hesitation* *.* *'* *It* *is* *impossible* *!*
*Are* *we* *not* *all* *flung* *into* *the* *world* *only* *to* *hate* *each* *other* *,* *and* *therefore* *to* *torment* *ourselves* *and* *others* *?*
*She* *mounted* *the* *high* *step* *of* *the* *railway* *carriage* *and* *seated* *herself* *in* *an* *empty* *compartment* *on* *the* *dirty* *-* *though* *once* *white* *-* *cover* *of* *the* *spring* *seat* *.*
*At* *last* *the* *third* *bell* *rang* *,* *the* *engine* *whistled* *and* *creaked* *,* *the* *coupling* *chains* *gave* *a* *jerk* *,* *and* *the* *husband* *crossed* *himself* *.* *'* *It* *would* *be* *interesting* *to* *ask* *him* *what* *he* *means* *by* *it* *,* *'* *thought* *Anna* *,* *regarding* *him* *spitefully* *.*
*At* *the* *point* *that* *I* *can* *not* *imagine* *a* *situation* *in* *which* *life* *would* *not* *be* *a* *torment* *;* *that* *we* *all* *have* *been* *created* *in* *order* *to* *suffer* *,* *and* *that* *we* *all* *know* *this* *and* *all* *try* *to* *invent* *means* *of* *deceiving* *ourselves* *.*
*And* *glancing* *at* *the* *red-cheeked* *husband* *and* *his* *thin* *wife* *,* *she* *saw* *that* *the* *sickly* *wife* *considered* *herself* *misunderstood* *,* *and* *that* *the* *husband* *deceived* *her* *and* *encouraged* *her* *in* *her* *opinion* *of* *herself* *.*
*A* *feeling* *seized* *her* *like* *that* *she* *had* *experienced* *when* *preparing* *to* *enter* *the* *water* *in* *bathing* *,* *and* *she* *crossed* *herself* *.*
*The* *familiar* *gesture* *of* *making* *the* *sign* *of* *the* *cross* *called* *up* *a* *whole* *series* *of* *girlish* *and* *childish* *memories* *,* *and* *suddenly* *the* *darkness* *,* *that* *obscured* *everything* *from* *her* *,* *broke* *,* *and* *life* *showed* *itself* *to* *her* *for* *an* *instant* *with* *all* *its* *bright* *past* *joys* *.*
*But* *she* *did* *not* *take* *her* *eyes* *off* *the* *wheels* *of* *the* *approaching* *second* *truck* *,* *and* *at* *the* *very* *moment* *when* *the* *midway* *point* *between* *the* *wheels* *drew* *level* *,* *she* *threw* *away* *her* *red* *bag* *,* *and* *drawing* *her* *head* *down* *between* *her* *shoulders* *threw* *herself* *forward* *on* *her* *hands* *under* *the* *truck* *,* *and* *with* *a* *light* *movement* *as* *if* *preparing* *to* *rise* *again* *immediately* *dropped* *on* *her* *knees* *.*
*She* *wished* *to* *rise* *,* *to* *throw* *herself* *back* *,* *but* *something* *huge* *and* *relentless* *struck* *her* *on* *the* *head* *and* *dragged* *her* *down* *.* *'* *God* *forgive* *me* *everything* *!* *'* *she* *said* *,* *feeling* *the* *impossibility* *of* *struggling* *...*
*'* *Did* *not* *I* *offend* *him* *in* *some* *way* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *.*
*Discussions* *in* *drawing-rooms* *,* *at* *meetings* *,* *at* *assemblies* *,* *in* *committees* *,* *and* *everywhere* *where* *one* *could* *speak* *,* *took* *up* *part* *of* *his* *time* *;* *but* *,* *as* *an* *habitual* *town-dweller* *,* *he* *did* *not* *allow* *himself* *to* *be* *entirely* *absorbed* *by* *discussions* *,* *as* *his* *inexperienced* *brother* *did* *when* *he* *was* *in* *Moscow* *;* *so* *he* *had* *much* *superfluous* *leisure* *and* *mental* *energy* *.*
*Fortunately* *for* *him* *,* *at* *this* *most* *trying* *time* *,* *after* *the* *failure* *of* *his* *book* *,* *in* *place* *of* *the* *questions* *of* *Dissent* *,* *our* *American* *friends* *,* *the* *Samara* *Famine* *,* *the* *Exhibitions* *,* *and* *Spiritualism* *,* *the* *Slavonic* *question* *-* *which* *had* *previously* *only* *smouldered* *in* *Society* *-* *came* *to* *the* *front* *,* *and* *Koznyshev* *,* *who* *had* *previously* *been* *one* *of* *the* *promoters* *of* *that* *cause* *,* *devoted* *himself* *to* *it* *entirely* *.*
*He* *devoted* *himself* *completely* *to* *the* *service* *of* *that* *great* *movement* *and* *forgot* *to* *think* *about* *his* *book* *.*
*You* *know* *,* *les* *petites* *misres* *de* *la* *vie* *humaine* *,* *'* *[* *The* *little* *miseries* *of* *human* *life* *.* *]* *he* *said* *to* *the* *Princess* *,* *as* *if* *to* *excuse* *himself* *.* *'* *And* *the* *Princess* *Myagkaya* *,* *not* *Lisa* *but* *Bibish* *,* *is* *really* *sending* *a* *thousand* *rifles* *and* *twelve* *nurses* *!*
*Not* *only* *is* *he* *going* *himself* *,* *but* *he* *is* *taking* *a* *whole* *squadron* *at* *his* *own* *expense* *.* *'*
*He* *knew* *what* *a* *military* *man* *ought* *to* *be* *,* *and* *by* *the* *appearance* *and* *talk* *of* *those* *men* *,* *and* *by* *the* *swagger* *with* *which* *they* *applied* *themselves* *to* *their* *flasks* *on* *the* *way* *,* *he* *considered* *them* *bad* *soldiers* *.*
*We* *took* *away* *everything* *that* *he* *could* *kill* *himself* *with* *.* *We* *lived* *on* *the* *ground* *floor* *,* *but* *one* *could* *not* *tell* *what* *he* *might* *do* *.*
*You* *know* *he* *had* *once* *before* *shot* *himself* *on* *her* *account* *?* *'* *she* *said* *,* *and* *the* *old* *woman* *'s* *brows* *knit* *at* *the* *recollection* *.* *'* *Yes* *,* *she* *ended* *as* *such* *a* *woman* *deserved* *to* *end* *.*
*In* *the* *evening* *I* *had* *only* *just* *gone* *to* *my* *room* *when* *my* *Mary* *told* *me* *that* *at* *the* *station* *a* *lady* *had* *thrown* *herself* *under* *a* *train* *.*
*Well* *,* *she* *proved* *it* *!* *She* *ruined* *herself* *and* *two* *splendid* *men* *-* *her* *husband* *and* *my* *unfortunate* *son* *.* *'*
*But* *my* *poor* *son* *had* *given* *himself* *up* *to* *her* *entirely* *.*
*No* *,* *say* *what* *you* *will* *,* *her* *death* *itself* *was* *the* *death* *of* *a* *horrid* *woman* *,* *without* *religion* *.*
*Having* *twice* *walked* *past* *the* *sacks* *and* *mastered* *himself* *,* *he* *turned* *calmly* *to* *Koznyshev* *:*
*I* *was* *so* *busy* *that* *I* *did* *not* *know* *when* *I* *could* *tear* *myself* *away* *.*
*'* *Yes* *,* *yes* *!* *Hush* *!* *...* *'* *was* *all* *Kitty* *answered* *as* *she* *sat* *softly* *rocking* *herself* *and* *tenderly* *pressing* *the* *little* *plump* *arm* *,* *which* *looked* *as* *if* *a* *thread* *had* *been* *tied* *round* *the* *wrist* *,* *and* *was* *still* *feebly* *waving* *while* *Mitya* *kept* *shutting* *and* *opening* *his* *eyes* *.*
*He* *says* *himself* *that* *he* *would* *like* *to* *believe* *.*
*What* *astounded* *and* *upset* *him* *most* *in* *this* *connection* *,* *was* *that* *the* *majority* *of* *those* *in* *his* *set* *and* *of* *his* *age* *,* *having* *like* *himself* *replaced* *their* *former* *beliefs* *by* *new* *convictions* *like* *his* *own* *;* *did* *not* *see* *anything* *to* *be* *distressed* *about* *,* *and* *were* *quite* *contented* *and* *tranquil* *.* *So* *that* *,* *besides* *the* *principal* *question* *,* *Levin* *was* *tormented* *by* *other* *questions* *:* *Were* *these* *people* *sincere* *?*
*Latterly* *in* *Moscow* *and* *in* *the* *country* *,* *having* *convinced* *himself* *that* *he* *could* *get* *no* *answer* *from* *the* *materialists* *,* *he* *read* *through* *and* *re-read* *Plato* *,* *Spinoza* *,* *Kant* *,* *Schelling* *,* *Hegel* *,* *and* *Schopenhauer* *,* *those* *philosophers* *who* *explained* *life* *otherwise* *than* *materialistically* *.*
*Their* *thoughts* *seemed* *to* *him* *fruitful* *when* *he* *read* *,* *or* *was* *himself* *devising* *refutations* *of* *other* *teachings* *,* *the* *materialistic* *in* *particular* *;* *but* *as* *soon* *as* *he* *began* *reading* *,* *or* *himself* *devised* *,* *solutions* *to* *life* *'s* *problems* *,* *the* *same* *thing* *occurred* *every* *time* *.*
*'* *In* *an* *infinity* *of* *time* *,* *and* *in* *infinity* *of* *matter* *,* *in* *infinite* *space* *,* *a* *bubble* *,* *a* *bubble* *organism* *,* *separates* *itself* *,* *and* *that* *bubble* *maintains* *itself* *awhile* *and* *then* *bursts* *,* *and* *that* *bubble* *is* *-* *I* *!* *'*
*It* *was* *the* *latest* *belief* *.* *It* *was* *the* *ruling* *conviction* *and* *from* *among* *all* *other* *explanations* *Levin* *,* *without* *himself* *knowing* *when* *or* *how* *,* *had* *involuntarily* *chosen* *it* *as* *being* *at* *any* *rate* *the* *clearest* *of* *all* *.*
*And* *though* *he* *was* *a* *happy* *and* *healthy* *family* *man* *,* *Levin* *was* *several* *times* *so* *near* *to* *suicide* *that* *he* *hid* *a* *cord* *he* *had* *lest* *he* *should* *hang* *himself* *,* *and* *he* *feared* *to* *carry* *a* *gun* *lest* *he* *should* *shoot* *himself* *.*
*But* *he* *did* *not* *hang* *or* *shoot* *himself* *and* *went* *on* *living* *.*
*WHEN* *LEVIN* *THOUGHT* *about* *what* *he* *was* *and* *why* *he* *lived* *,* *he* *could* *find* *no* *answer* *and* *was* *driven* *to* *despair* *;* *but* *when* *he* *left* *off* *asking* *himself* *those* *questions* *he* *seemed* *to* *know* *what* *he* *was* *and* *why* *he* *lived* *,* *for* *he* *acted* *and* *lived* *unfalteringly* *and* *definitely* *-* *recently* *even* *more* *unfalteringly* *than* *before* *.*
*Formerly* *(* *it* *had* *been* *so* *almost* *from* *childhood* *and* *increasingly* *so* *till* *his* *complete* *maturity* *)* *when* *he* *tried* *to* *do* *anything* *for* *the* *good* *of* *everybody* *,* *for* *humanity* *,* *for* *Russia* *,* *for* *the* *whole* *village* *,* *he* *had* *noticed* *that* *the* *thoughts* *of* *it* *were* *agreeable* *,* *but* *the* *activity* *itself* *was* *always* *unsatisfactory* *;* *there* *was* *no* *full* *assurance* *that* *the* *work* *was* *really* *necessary* *,* *and* *the* *activity* *itself* *,* *which* *at* *first* *seemed* *so* *great* *,* *ever* *lessened* *and* *lessened* *till* *it* *vanished* *.*
*But* *now* *since* *his* *marriage* *,* *when* *he* *began* *to* *confine* *himself* *more* *and* *more* *to* *living* *for* *himself* *,* *though* *he* *no* *longer* *felt* *any* *joy* *at* *the* *thought* *of* *his* *activity* *,* *he* *felt* *confident* *that* *his* *work* *was* *necessary* *,* *saw* *that* *it* *progressed* *far* *better* *than* *formerly* *,* *and* *that* *it* *was* *always* *growing* *more* *and* *more* *.*
*Having* *lived* *most* *of* *his* *life* *in* *the* *country* *and* *in* *close* *contact* *with* *the* *peasants* *,* *Levin* *always* *felt* *,* *at* *this* *busy* *time* *,* *that* *this* *general* *stimulation* *of* *the* *peasants* *communicated* *itself* *to* *him* *.*
*Levin* *went* *up* *to* *the* *roller* *,* *motioned* *Theodore* *aside* *and* *himself* *began* *feeding* *the* *machine* *.*
*'* *What* *have* *I* *discovered* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *,* *turning* *back* *the* *leaf* *that* *it* *should* *not* *hinder* *the* *insect* *and* *bending* *another* *blade* *for* *the* *creature* *to* *pass* *on* *to* *.*
*I* *have* *freed* *myself* *from* *deception* *and* *learnt* *to* *know* *my* *Master* *.*
*Having* *then* *for* *the* *first* *time* *clearly* *understood* *that* *before* *every* *man* *,* *and* *before* *himself* *,* *there* *lay* *only* *suffering* *,* *death* *,* *and* *eternal* *oblivion* *,* *he* *had* *concluded* *that* *to* *live* *under* *such* *conditions* *was* *impossible* *;* *that* *one* *must* *either* *explain* *life* *to* *oneself* *so* *that* *it* *does* *not* *seem* *to* *be* *an* *evil* *mockery* *by* *some* *sort* *of* *devil* *,* *or* *one* *must* *shoot* *oneself* *.*
*'* *But* *can* *I* *believe* *in* *all* *that* *the* *Church* *professes* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *,* *testing* *himself* *by* *everything* *which* *might* *destroy* *his* *present* *peace* *of* *mind* *.*
*They* *bring* *their-mites* *,* *or* *go* *themselves* *,* *and* *say* *straight* *out* *why* *they* *do* *it* *.*
*Twenty* *years* *ago* *we* *should* *have* *been* *silent* *,* *but* *now* *we* *hear* *the* *voice* *of* *the* *Russian* *people* *,* *who* *are* *ready* *to* *arise* *as* *one* *man* *and* *to* *sacrifice* *themselves* *for* *their* *oppressed* *brethren* *.*
*'* *But* *it* *'s* *not* *a* *question* *of* *sacrificing* *themselves* *only* *,* *but* *of* *killing* *Turks* *,* *'* *remarked* *Levin* *timidly* *.* *'* *The* *people* *sacrifice* *and* *are* *ready* *to* *sacrifice* *for* *the* *good* *of* *their* *souls* *,* *but* *not* *for* *murder* *,* *'* *he* *added* *,* *involuntarily* *connecting* *the* *conversation* *with* *the* *thoughts* *that* *so* *engrossed* *him* *.*
*He* *saw* *that* *it* *was* *not* *possible* *to* *convince* *his* *brother* *and* *Katavasov* *,* *and* *still* *less* *did* *he* *see* *any* *possibility* *of* *himself* *agreeing* *with* *them* *.*
*He* *could* *not* *agree* *with* *this* *,* *because* *he* *neither* *saw* *the* *expression* *of* *those* *thoughts* *in* *the* *people* *among* *whom* *he* *lived* *,* *nor* *did* *he* *find* *any* *such* *thoughts* *in* *himself* *(* *and* *he* *could* *not* *consider* *himself* *as* *other* *than* *one* *of* *those* *who* *constituted* *the* *Russian* *people* *)* *.* *Above* *all* *,* *he* *could* *not* *agree* *because* *he* *,* *together* *with* *the* *people* *,* *did* *not* *know* *and* *could* *not* *know* *wherein* *lay* *the* *general* *welfare* *,* *but* *knew* *definitely* *that* *the* *attainment* *of* *this* *welfare* *was* *only* *possible* *by* *a* *strict* *fulfilment* *of* *the* *law* *of* *goodness* *which* *is* *revealed* *to* *every* *man* *,* *and* *therefore* *could* *not* *desire* *or* *preach* *war* *for* *any* *kind* *of* *general* *aims* *.*
*We* *had* *hardly* *...* *'* *Kitty* *began* *excusing* *herself* *.*
*Now* *it* *was* *not* *as* *it* *used* *to* *be* *with* *him* *when* *he.* *had* *invented* *ways* *of* *tranquillizing* *himself* *and* *had* *been* *obliged* *to* *recapitulate* *the* *whole* *train* *of* *reflections* *in* *order* *to* *arrive* *at* *the* *feeling* *.*
*'* *Well* *,* *what* *is* *perplexing* *me* *?* *'* *Levin* *asked* *himself* *,* *feeling* *in* *advance* *that* *the* *solution* *of* *his* *doubts* *,* *though* *as* *yet* *unknown* *to* *him* *,* *was* *already* *in* *his* *soul* *.*
*'* *Is* *it* *possible* *that* *those* *hundreds* *of* *millions* *of* *people* *are* *deprived* *of* *that* *highest* *blessing* *,* *without* *which* *life* *has* *no* *meaning* *?* *'* *he* *pondered* *,* *but* *he* *immediately* *corrected* *himself* *.* *'* *But* *what* *am* *I* *asking* *about* *?* *'* *he* *said* *to* *himself* *.*
*'* *Do* *I* *not* *know* *that* *it* *is* *not* *the* *stars* *that* *are* *moving* *?* *'* *he* *asked* *himself* *,* *looking* *at* *a* *bright* *planet* *that* *had* *already* *shifted* *its* *position* *by* *the* *top* *branch* *of* *a* *birch* *tree* *.* *'* *But* *I* *,* *watching* *the* *movement* *of* *the* *stars* *,* *can* *not* *picture* *to* *myself* *the* *rotation* *of* *the* *earth* *and* *I* *am* *right* *in* *saying* *that* *the* *stars* *move* *.*
*In* *an* *instant* *both* *boys* *were* *rolling* *and* *tumbling* *in* *the* *dirt* *,* *gripped* *together* *like* *cats* *;* *and* *for* *the* *space* *of* *a* *minute* *they* *tugged* *and* *tore* *at* *each* *other* *'s* *hair* *and* *clothes* *,* *punched* *and* *scratched* *each* *other* *'s* *nose* *,* *and* *covered* *themselves* *with* *dust* *and* *glory* *.*
*The* *boy* *only* *struggled* *to* *free* *himself* *.*
*As* *he* *drew* *near* *,* *he* *slackened* *speed* *,* *took* *the* *middle* *of* *the* *street* *,* *leaned* *far* *over* *to* *starboard* *and* *rounded* *to* *ponderously* *and* *with* *laborious* *pomp* *and* *circumstance* *--* *for* *he* *was* *personating* *the* *Big* *Missouri* *,* *and* *considered* *himself* *to* *be* *drawing* *nine* *feet* *of* *water* *.*
*He* *was* *boat* *and* *captain* *and* *engine-bells* *combined* *,* *so* *he* *had* *to* *imagine* *himself* *standing* *on* *his* *own* *hurricane-deck* *giving* *the* *orders* *and* *executing* *them* *:*
*TOM* *presented* *himself* *before* *Aunt* *Polly* *,* *who* *was* *sitting* *by* *an* *open* *window* *in* *a* *pleasant* *rearward* *apartment* *,* *which* *was* *bedroom* *,* *breakfast-room* *,* *dining-room* *,* *and* *library* *,* *combined* *.*
*She* *had* *thought* *that* *of* *course* *Tom* *had* *deserted* *long* *ago* *,* *and* *she* *wondered* *at* *seeing* *him* *place* *himself* *in* *her* *power* *again* *in* *this* *intrepid* *way* *.*
*He* *returned* *,* *now* *,* *and* *hung* *about* *the* *fence* *till* *nightfall* *,* *``* *showing* *off* *,* *''* *as* *before* *;* *but* *the* *girl* *never* *exhibited* *herself* *again* *,* *though* *Tom* *comforted* *himself* *a* *little* *with* *the* *hope* *that* *she* *had* *been* *near* *some* *window* *,* *meantime* *,* *and* *been* *aware* *of* *his* *attentions* *.*
*He* *was* *so* *brimful* *of* *exultation* *that* *he* *could* *hardly* *hold* *himself* *when* *the* *old* *lady* *came* *back* *and* *stood* *above* *the* *wreck* *discharging* *lightnings* *of* *wrath* *from* *over* *her* *spectacles* *.*
*He* *pictured* *himself* *lying* *sick* *unto* *death* *and* *his* *aunt* *bending* *over* *him* *beseeching* *one* *little* *forgiving* *word* *,* *but* *he* *would* *turn* *his* *face* *to* *the* *wall* *,* *and* *die* *with* *that* *word* *unsaid* *.*
*And* *he* *pictured* *himself* *brought* *home* *from* *the* *river* *,* *dead* *,* *with* *his* *curls* *all* *wet* *,* *and* *his* *sore* *heart* *at* *rest* *.*
*How* *she* *would* *throw* *herself* *upon* *him* *,* *and* *how* *her* *tears* *would* *fall* *like* *rain* *,* *and* *her* *lips* *pray* *God* *to* *give* *her* *back* *her* *boy* *and* *she* *would* *never* *,* *never* *abuse* *him* *any* *more* *!*
*A* *log* *raft* *in* *the* *river* *invited* *him* *,* *and* *he* *seated* *himself* *on* *its* *outer* *edge* *and* *contemplated* *the* *dreary* *vastness* *of* *the* *stream* *,* *wishing* *,* *the* *while* *,* *that* *he* *could* *only* *be* *drowned* *,* *all* *at* *once* *and* *unconsciously* *,* *without* *undergoing* *the* *uncomfortable* *routine* *devised* *by* *nature* *.*
*He* *climbed* *the* *fence* *,* *threaded* *his* *stealthy* *way* *through* *the* *plants* *,* *till* *he* *stood* *under* *that* *window* *;* *he* *looked* *up* *at* *it* *long* *,* *and* *with* *emotion* *;* *then* *he* *laid* *him* *down* *on* *the* *ground* *under* *it* *,* *disposing* *himself* *upon* *his* *back* *,* *with* *his* *hands* *clasped* *upon* *his* *breast* *and* *holding* *his* *poor* *wilted* *flower* *.*
*The* *girl* *``* *put* *him* *to* *rights* *''* *after* *he* *had* *dressed* *himself* *;* *she* *buttoned* *his* *neat* *roundabout* *up* *to* *his* *chin* *,* *turned* *his* *vast* *shirt* *collar* *down* *over* *his* *shoulders* *,* *brushed* *him* *off* *and* *crowned* *him* *with* *his* *speckled* *straw* *hat* *.*
*He* *once* *recited* *three* *thousand* *verses* *without* *stopping* *;* *but* *the* *strain* *upon* *his* *mental* *faculties* *was* *too* *great* *,* *and* *he* *was* *little* *better* *than* *an* *idiot* *from* *that* *day* *forth* *--* *a* *grievous* *misfortune* *for* *the* *school* *,* *for* *on* *great* *occasions* *,* *before* *company* *,* *the* *superintendent* *(* *as* *Tom* *expressed* *it* *)* *had* *always* *made* *this* *boy* *come* *out* *and* *``* *spread* *himself* *.* *''*
*And* *above* *it* *all* *the* *great* *man* *sat* *and* *beamed* *a* *majestic* *judicial* *smile* *upon* *all* *the* *house* *,* *and* *warmed* *himself* *in* *the* *sun* *of* *his* *own* *grandeur* *--* *for* *he* *was* *``* *showing* *off* *,* *''* *too* *.*
*These* *despised* *themselves* *,* *as* *being* *the* *dupes* *of* *a* *wily* *fraud* *,* *a* *guileful* *snake* *in* *the* *grass* *.*
*The* *Sunday-school* *children* *distributed* *themselves* *about* *the* *house* *and* *occupied* *pews* *with* *their* *parents* *,* *so* *as* *to* *be* *under* *supervision* *.*
*After* *the* *hymn* *had* *been* *sung* *,* *the* *Rev.* *Mr.* *Sprague* *turned* *himself* *into* *a* *bulletin-board* *,* *and* *read* *off* *``* *notices* *''* *of* *meetings* *and* *societies* *and* *things* *till* *it* *seemed* *that* *the* *list* *would* *stretch* *out* *to* *the* *crack* *of* *doom* *--* *a* *queer* *custom* *which* *is* *still* *kept* *up* *in* *America* *,* *even* *in* *cities* *,* *away* *here* *in* *this* *age* *of* *abundant* *newspapers* *.* *Often* *,* *the* *less* *there* *is* *to* *justify* *a* *traditional* *custom* *,* *the* *harder* *it* *is* *to* *get* *rid* *of* *it* *.*
*But* *he* *grew* *tired* *once* *more* *,* *after* *a* *while* *;* *tried* *to* *amuse* *himself* *with* *a* *fly* *but* *found* *no* *relief* *;* *followed* *an* *ant* *around* *,* *with* *his* *nose* *close* *to* *the* *floor* *,* *and* *quickly* *wearied* *of* *that* *;* *yawned* *,* *sighed* *,* *forgot* *the* *beetle* *entirely* *,* *and* *sat* *down* *on* *it* *.*
*He* *took* *a* *rest* *and* *then* *swelled* *himself* *up* *and* *fetched* *a* *succession* *of* *admirable* *groans* *.*
*Sid* *yawned* *,* *stretched* *,* *then* *brought* *himself* *up* *on* *his* *elbow* *with* *a* *snort* *,* *and* *began* *to* *stare* *at* *Tom* *.*
*He* *gathered* *quite* *a* *following* *of* *lads* *interested* *in* *the* *exhibition* *;* *and* *one* *that* *had* *cut* *his* *finger* *and* *had* *been* *a* *centre* *of* *fascination* *and* *homage* *up* *to* *this* *time* *,* *now* *found* *himself* *suddenly* *without* *an* *adherent* *,* *and* *shorn* *of* *his* *glory* *.*
*He* *hung* *his* *hat* *on* *a* *peg* *and* *flung* *himself* *into* *his* *seat* *with* *business-like* *alacrity* *.*
*He* *sat* *down* *upon* *the* *end* *of* *the* *pine* *bench* *and* *the* *girl* *hitched* *herself* *away* *from* *him* *with* *a* *toss* *of* *her* *head* *.*
*For* *a* *time* *the* *girl* *refused* *to* *notice* *;* *but* *her* *human* *curiosity* *presently* *began* *to* *manifest* *itself* *by* *hardly* *perceptible* *signs* *.*
*Then* *the* *girl* *'s* *interest* *began* *to* *fasten* *itself* *upon* *the* *work* *and* *she* *forgot* *everything* *else* *.*
*It* *was* *a* *hard* *struggle* *with* *him* *to* *make* *new* *advances* *,* *now* *,* *but* *he* *nerved* *himself* *to* *it* *and* *entered* *.*
*So* *she* *sat* *down* *to* *cry* *again* *and* *upbraid* *herself* *;* *and* *by* *this* *time* *the* *scholars* *began* *to* *gather* *again* *,* *and* *she* *had* *to* *hide* *her* *griefs* *and* *still* *her* *broken* *heart* *and* *take* *up* *the* *cross* *of* *a* *long* *,* *dreary* *,* *aching* *afternoon* *,* *with* *none* *among* *the* *strangers* *about* *her* *to* *exchange* *sorrows* *with* *.*
*For* *frivolity* *and* *jokes* *and* *spotted* *tights* *were* *an* *offense* *,* *when* *they* *intruded* *themselves* *upon* *a* *spirit* *that* *was* *exalted* *into* *the* *vague* *august* *realm* *of* *the* *romantic* *.*
*If* *you* *buried* *a* *marble* *with* *certain* *necessary* *incantations* *,* *and* *left* *it* *alone* *a* *fortnight* *,* *and* *then* *opened* *the* *place* *with* *the* *incantation* *he* *had* *just* *used* *,* *you* *would* *find* *that* *all* *the* *marbles* *you* *had* *ever* *lost* *had* *gathered* *themselves* *together* *there* *,* *meantime* *,* *no* *matter* *how* *widely* *they* *had* *been* *separated* *.*
*He* *thought* *he* *would* *satisfy* *himself* *on* *that* *point* *;* *so* *he* *searched* *around* *till* *he* *found* *a* *small* *sandy* *spot* *with* *a* *little* *funnel-shaped* *depression* *in* *it* *.*
*He* *laid* *himself* *down* *and* *put* *his* *mouth* *close* *to* *this* *depression* *and* *called* *--*
*Now* *he* *went* *back* *to* *his* *treasure-house* *and* *carefully* *placed* *himself* *just* *as* *he* *had* *been* *standing* *when* *he* *tossed* *the* *marble* *away* *;* *then* *he* *took* *another* *marble* *from* *his* *pocket* *and* *tossed* *it* *in* *the* *same* *way* *,* *saying* *:* *``* *Brother* *,* *go* *find* *your* *brother* *!* *''*
*"* *I* *sha* *'n't* *!* *Why* *do* *n't* *you* *fall* *yourself* *?*
*The* *boys* *dressed* *themselves* *,* *hid* *their* *accoutrements* *,* *and* *went* *off* *grieving* *that* *there* *were* *no* *outlaws* *any* *more* *,* *and* *wondering* *what* *modern* *civilization* *could* *claim* *to* *have* *done* *to* *compensate* *for* *their* *loss* *.*
*By* *and* *by* *,* *out* *of* *the* *stillness* *,* *little* *,* *scarcely* *perceptible* *noises* *began* *to* *emphasize* *themselves* *.*
*The* *ticking* *of* *the* *clock* *began* *to* *bring* *itself* *into* *notice* *.*
*They* *found* *the* *sharp* *new* *heap* *they* *were* *seeking* *,* *and* *ensconced* *themselves* *within* *the* *protection* *of* *three* *great* *elms* *that* *grew* *in* *a* *bunch* *within* *a* *few* *feet* *of* *the* *grave* *.*
*Did* *n't* *Gracie* *Miller* *fall* *in* *the* *kitchen* *fire* *and* *burn* *herself* *terrible* *the* *very* *next* *Saturday* *?* *"*
*He* *undressed* *with* *excessive* *caution* *,* *and* *fell* *asleep* *congratulating* *himself* *that* *nobody* *knew* *of* *his* *escapade* *.*
*His* *aunt* *wept* *over* *him* *and* *asked* *him* *how* *he* *could* *go* *and* *break* *her* *old* *heart* *so* *;* *and* *finally* *told* *him* *to* *go* *on* *,* *and* *ruin* *himself* *and* *bring* *her* *gray* *hairs* *with* *sorrow* *to* *the* *grave* *,* *for* *it* *was* *no* *use* *for* *her* *to* *try* *any* *more* *.*
*Then* *he* *betook* *himself* *to* *his* *seat* *,* *rested* *his* *elbows* *on* *his* *desk* *and* *his* *jaws* *in* *his* *hands* *,* *and* *stared* *at* *the* *wall* *with* *the* *stony* *stare* *of* *suffering* *that* *has* *reached* *the* *limit* *and* *can* *no* *further* *go* *.*
*And* *it* *was* *said* *that* *a* *belated* *citizen* *had* *come* *upon* *Potter* *washing* *himself* *in* *the* *``* *branch* *''* *about* *one* *or* *two* *o* *'clock* *in* *the* *morning* *,* *and* *that* *Potter* *had* *at* *once* *sneaked* *off* *--* *suspicious* *circumstances* *,* *especially* *the* *washing* *which* *was* *not* *a* *habit* *with* *Potter* *.*
*At* *this* *moment* *the* *crowd* *began* *to* *sway* *and* *struggle* *,* *and* *voices* *shouted* *,* *``* *It* *'s* *him* *!* *it* *'s* *him* *!* *he* *'s* *coming* *himself* *!* *''*
*And* *when* *he* *had* *finished* *and* *still* *stood* *alive* *and* *whole* *,* *their* *wavering* *impulse* *to* *break* *their* *oath* *and* *save* *the* *poor* *betrayed* *prisoner* *'s* *life* *faded* *and* *vanished* *away* *,* *for* *plainly* *this* *miscreant* *had* *sold* *himself* *to* *Satan* *and* *it* *would* *be* *fatal* *to* *meddle* *with* *the* *property* *of* *such* *a* *power* *as* *that* *.*
*Injun* *Joe* *repeated* *his* *statement* *,* *just* *as* *calmly* *,* *a* *few* *minutes* *afterward* *on* *the* *inquest* *,* *under* *oath* *;* *and* *the* *boys* *,* *seeing* *that* *the* *lightnings* *were* *still* *withheld* *,* *were* *confirmed* *in* *their* *belief* *that* *Joe* *had* *sold* *himself* *to* *the* *devil* *.*
*ONE* *of* *the* *reasons* *why* *Tom* *'s* *mind* *had* *drifted* *away* *from* *its* *secret* *troubles* *was* *,* *that* *it* *had* *found* *a* *new* *and* *weighty* *matter* *to* *interest* *itself* *about* *.*
*He* *began* *to* *find* *himself* *hanging* *around* *her* *father* *'s* *house* *,* *nights* *,* *and* *feeling* *very* *miserable* *.*
*He* *asked* *for* *it* *so* *often* *that* *he* *became* *a* *nuisance* *,* *and* *his* *aunt* *ended* *by* *telling* *him* *to* *help* *himself* *and* *quit* *bothering* *her* *.*
*He* *gathered* *himself* *up* *and* *sneaked* *off* *,* *crushed* *and* *crestfallen* *.*
*Then* *Tom* *tumbled* *his* *ham* *over* *the* *bluff* *and* *let* *himself* *down* *after* *it* *,* *tearing* *both* *skin* *and* *clothes* *to* *some* *extent* *in* *the* *effort* *.*
*The* *Terror* *of* *the* *Seas* *had* *brought* *a* *side* *of* *bacon* *,* *and* *had* *about* *worn* *himself* *out* *with* *getting* *it* *there* *.*
*They* *saw* *a* *fire* *smouldering* *upon* *a* *great* *raft* *a* *hundred* *yards* *above* *,* *and* *they* *went* *stealthily* *thither* *and* *helped* *themselves* *to* *a* *chunk* *.*
*When* *the* *last* *crisp* *slice* *of* *bacon* *was* *gone* *,* *and* *the* *last* *allowance* *of* *corn* *pone* *devoured* *,* *the* *boys* *stretched* *themselves* *out* *on* *the* *grass* *,* *filled* *with* *contentment* *.*
*They* *could* *have* *found* *a* *cooler* *place* *,* *but* *they* *would* *not* *deny* *themselves* *such* *a* *romantic* *feature* *as* *the* *roasting* *campfire* *.*
*Gradually* *the* *cool* *dim* *gray* *of* *the* *morning* *whitened* *,* *and* *as* *gradually* *sounds* *multiplied* *and* *life* *manifested* *itself* *.*
*They* *were* *too* *hungry* *to* *stop* *to* *fish* *,* *but* *they* *fared* *sumptuously* *upon* *cold* *ham* *,* *and* *then* *threw* *themselves* *down* *in* *the* *shade* *to* *talk* *.*
*However* *,* *he* *reached* *the* *shore* *finally* *,* *and* *drifted* *along* *till* *he* *found* *a* *low* *place* *and* *drew* *himself* *out* *.*
*He* *laid* *himself* *down* *under* *the* *thwarts* *and* *waited* *,* *panting* *.*
*He* *flew* *along* *unfrequented* *alleys* *,* *and* *shortly* *found* *himself* *at* *his* *aunt* *'s* *back* *fence* *.*
*Then* *with* *a* *mutual* *impulse* *the* *two* *bereaved* *women* *flung* *themselves* *into* *each* *other* *'s* *arms* *and* *had* *a* *good* *,* *consoling* *cry* *,* *and* *then* *parted* *.*
*When* *he* *had* *pulled* *a* *mile* *above* *the* *village* *,* *he* *started* *quartering* *across* *and* *bent* *himself* *stoutly* *to* *his* *work* *.*
*He* *sat* *down* *and* *took* *a* *long* *rest* *,* *torturing* *himself* *meanwhile* *to* *keep* *awake* *,* *and* *then* *started* *warily* *down* *the* *home-stretch* *.*
*It* *was* *broad* *daylight* *before* *he* *found* *himself* *fairly* *abreast* *the* *island* *bar* *.*
*Then* *Tom* *hid* *himself* *away* *in* *a* *shady* *nook* *to* *sleep* *till* *noon* *,* *and* *the* *other* *pirates* *got* *ready* *to* *fish* *and* *explore* *.*
*When* *they* *were* *well* *exhausted* *,* *they* *would* *run* *out* *and* *sprawl* *on* *the* *dry* *,* *hot* *sand* *,* *and* *lie* *there* *and* *cover* *themselves* *up* *with* *it* *,* *and* *by* *and* *by* *break* *for* *the* *water* *again* *and* *go* *through* *the* *original* *performance* *once* *more* *.*
*Tom* *found* *himself* *writing* *``* *BECKY* *''* *in* *the* *sand* *with* *his* *big* *toe* *;* *he* *scratched* *it* *out* *,* *and* *was* *angry* *with* *himself* *for* *his* *weakness* *.*
*He* *erased* *it* *once* *more* *and* *then* *took* *himself* *out* *of* *temptation* *by* *driving* *the* *other* *boys* *together* *and* *joining* *them* *.*
*And* *he* *moved* *moodily* *away* *and* *began* *to* *dress* *himself* *.*
*Now* *they* *stretched* *themselves* *out* *on* *their* *elbows* *and* *began* *to* *puff* *,* *charily* *,* *and* *with* *slender* *confidence* *.*
*The* *boys* *huddled* *themselves* *together* *and* *sought* *the* *friendly* *companionship* *of* *the* *fire* *,* *though* *the* *dull* *dead* *heat* *of* *the* *breathless* *atmosphere* *was* *stifling* *.*
*A* *deep* *peal* *of* *thunder* *went* *rolling* *and* *tumbling* *down* *the* *heavens* *and* *lost* *itself* *in* *sullen* *rumblings* *in* *the* *distance* *.*
*They* *were* *eloquent* *in* *their* *distress* *;* *but* *they* *presently* *discovered* *that* *the* *fire* *had* *eaten* *so* *far* *up* *under* *the* *great* *log* *it* *had* *been* *built* *against* *(* *where* *it* *curved* *upward* *and* *separated* *itself* *from* *the* *ground* *)* *,* *that* *a* *handbreadth* *or* *so* *of* *it* *had* *escaped* *wetting* *;* *so* *they* *patiently* *wrought* *until* *,* *with* *shreds* *and* *bark* *gathered* *from* *the* *under* *sides* *of* *sheltered* *logs* *,* *they* *coaxed* *the* *fire* *to* *burn* *again* *.*
*In* *the* *afternoon* *Becky* *Thatcher* *found* *herself* *moping* *about* *the* *deserted* *schoolhouse* *yard* *,* *and* *feeling* *very* *melancholy* *.*
*As* *the* *service* *proceeded* *,* *the* *clergyman* *drew* *such* *pictures* *of* *the* *graces* *,* *the* *winning* *ways* *,* *and* *the* *rare* *promise* *of* *the* *lost* *lads* *that* *every* *soul* *there* *,* *thinking* *he* *recognized* *these* *pictures* *,* *felt* *a* *pang* *in* *remembering* *that* *he* *had* *persistently* *blinded* *himself* *to* *them* *always* *before* *,* *and* *had* *as* *persistently* *seen* *only* *faults* *and* *flaws* *in* *the* *poor* *boys* *.*
*The* *congregation* *became* *more* *and* *more* *moved* *,* *as* *the* *pathetic* *tale* *went* *on* *,* *till* *at* *last* *the* *whole* *company* *broke* *down* *and* *joined* *the* *weeping* *mourners* *in* *a* *chorus* *of* *anguished* *sobs* *,* *the* *preacher* *himself* *giving* *way* *to* *his* *feelings* *,* *and* *crying* *in* *the* *pulpit* *.*
*Aunt* *Polly* *,* *Mary* *,* *and* *the* *Harpers* *threw* *themselves* *upon* *their* *restored* *ones* *,* *smothered* *them* *with* *kisses* *and* *poured* *out* *thanksgivings* *,* *while* *poor* *Huck* *stood* *abashed* *and* *uncomfortable* *,* *not* *knowing* *exactly* *what* *to* *do* *or* *where* *to* *hide* *from* *so* *many* *unwelcoming* *eyes* *.*
*I* *'m* *thankful* *to* *the* *good* *God* *and* *Father* *of* *us* *all* *I* *'ve* *got* *you* *back* *,* *that* *'s* *long-suffering* *and* *merciful* *to* *them* *that* *believe* *on* *Him* *and* *keep* *His* *word* *,* *though* *goodness* *knows* *I* *'m* *unworthy* *of* *it* *,* *but* *if* *only* *the* *worthy* *ones* *got* *His* *blessings* *and* *had* *His* *hand* *to* *help* *them* *over* *the* *rough* *places* *,* *there* *'s* *few* *enough* *would* *smile* *here* *or* *ever* *enter* *into* *His* *rest* *when* *the* *long* *night* *comes* *.* *Go* *'* *long* *Sid* *,* *Mary* *,* *Tom* *--* *take* *yourselves* *off* *--* *you* *'ve* *hendered* *me* *long* *enough* *.* *"*
*Becky* *'s* *lips* *trembled* *and* *the* *tears* *came* *to* *her* *eyes* *;* *she* *hid* *these* *signs* *with* *a* *forced* *gayety* *and* *went* *on* *chattering* *,* *but* *the* *life* *had* *gone* *out* *of* *the* *picnic* *,* *now* *,* *and* *out* *of* *everything* *else* *;* *she* *got* *away* *as* *soon* *as* *she* *could* *and* *hid* *herself* *and* *had* *what* *her* *sex* *call* *``* *a* *good* *cry* *.* *''*
*He* *began* *to* *hate* *himself* *for* *throwing* *away* *the* *chance* *Becky* *had* *offered* *for* *a* *reconciliation* *.*
*He* *called* *himself* *a* *fool* *,* *and* *all* *the* *hard* *names* *he* *could* *think* *of* *.*
*Becky* *,* *glancing* *in* *at* *a* *window* *behind* *him* *at* *the* *moment* *,* *saw* *the* *act* *,* *and* *moved* *on* *,* *without* *discovering* *herself* *.*
*Once* *more* *she* *ventured* *,* *and* *this* *time* *she* *fortified* *herself* *with* *the* *thought* *:* *``* *It* *'s* *a* *good* *lie* *--* *it* *'s* *a* *good* *lie* *--* *I* *wo* *n't* *let* *it* *grieve* *me* *.* *''*
*The* *girl* *stopped* *and* *looked* *him* *scornfully* *in* *the* *face* *:* *"* *I* *'ll* *thank* *you* *to* *keep* *yourself* *_* *to* *_* *yourself* *,* *Mr.* *Thomas* *Sawyer* *.*
*Every* *day* *he* *took* *a* *mysterious* *book* *out* *of* *his* *desk* *and* *absorbed* *himself* *in* *it* *at* *times* *when* *no* *classes* *were* *reciting* *.*
*She* *glanced* *around* *;* *found* *herself* *alone* *,* *and* *the* *next* *instant* *she* *had* *the* *book* *in* *her* *hands* *.*
*She* *did* *not* *expect* *that* *Tom* *could* *get* *out* *of* *his* *trouble* *by* *denying* *that* *he* *spilt* *the* *ink* *on* *the* *book* *himself* *;* *and* *she* *was* *right* *.*
*When* *the* *worst* *came* *to* *the* *worst* *,* *she* *had* *an* *impulse* *to* *get* *up* *and* *tell* *on* *Alfred* *Temple* *,* *but* *she* *made* *an* *effort* *and* *forced* *herself* *to* *keep* *still* *--* *because* *,* *said* *she* *to* *herself* *,* *"* *he* *'ll* *tell* *about* *me* *tearing* *the* *picture* *sure* *.*
*By* *and* *by* *,* *Mr.* *Dobbins* *straightened* *himself* *up* *,* *yawned* *,* *then* *unlocked* *his* *desk* *,* *and* *reached* *for* *his* *book* *,* *but* *seemed* *undecided* *whether* *to* *take* *it* *out* *or* *leave* *it* *.*
*Mr.* *Dobbins* *fingered* *his* *book* *absently* *for* *a* *while* *,* *then* *took* *it* *out* *and* *settled* *himself* *in* *his* *chair* *to* *read* *!*
*The* *master* *'s* *wife* *would* *go* *on* *a* *visit* *to* *the* *country* *in* *a* *few* *days* *,* *and* *there* *would* *be* *nothing* *to* *interfere* *with* *the* *plan* *;* *the* *master* *always* *prepared* *himself* *for* *great* *occasions* *by* *getting* *pretty* *well* *fuddled* *,* *and* *the* *signpainter* *'s* *boy* *said* *that* *when* *the* *dominie* *had* *reached* *the* *proper* *condition* *on* *Examination* *Evening* *he* *would* *``* *manage* *the* *thing* *''* *while* *he* *napped* *in* *his* *chair* *;* *then* *he* *would* *have* *him* *awakened* *at* *the* *right* *time* *and* *hurried* *away* *to* *school* *.*
*A* *very* *little* *boy* *stood* *up* *and* *sheepishly* *recited* *,* *``* *You* *'d* *scarce* *expect* *one* *of* *my* *age* *to* *speak* *in* *public* *on* *the* *stage* *,* *''* *etc* *.* *--* *accompanying* *himself* *with* *the* *painfully* *exact* *and* *spasmodic* *gestures* *which* *a* *machine* *might* *have* *used* *--* *supposing* *the* *machine* *to* *be* *a* *trifle* *out* *of* *order* *.*
*In* *fancy* *,* *the* *voluptuous* *votary* *of* *fashion* *sees* *herself* *amid* *the* *festive* *throng* *,* *'* *the* *observed* *of* *all* *observers* *.* *'*
*He* *knew* *what* *the* *matter* *was* *,* *and* *set* *himself* *to* *right* *it* *.*
*Tom* *soon* *found* *himself* *tormented* *with* *a* *desire* *to* *drink* *and* *swear* *;* *the* *desire* *grew* *to* *be* *so* *intense* *that* *nothing* *but* *the* *hope* *of* *a* *chance* *to* *display* *himself* *in* *his* *red* *sash* *kept* *him* *from* *withdrawing* *from* *the* *order* *.*
*By* *and* *by* *the* *tempest* *spent* *itself* *and* *died* *without* *accomplishing* *its* *object* *.*
*Moreover* *,* *he* *wanted* *to* *assure* *himself* *that* *Huck* *had* *remained* *discreet* *.*
*As* *the* *twilight* *drew* *on* *,* *they* *found* *themselves* *hanging* *about* *the* *neighborhood* *of* *the* *little* *isolated* *jail* *,* *perhaps* *with* *an* *undefined* *hope* *that* *something* *would* *happen* *that* *might* *clear* *away* *their* *difficulties* *.*
*The* *next* *day* *and* *the* *day* *after* *,* *he* *hung* *about* *the* *courtroom* *,* *drawn* *by* *an* *almost* *irresistible* *impulse* *to* *go* *in* *,* *but* *forcing* *himself* *to* *stay* *out* *.*
*The* *perplexity* *and* *dissatisfaction* *of* *the* *house* *expressed* *itself* *in* *murmurs* *and* *provoked* *a* *reproof* *from* *the* *bench* *.*
*Many* *men* *were* *moved* *,* *and* *many* *women* *'s* *compassion* *testified* *itself* *in* *tears* *.*
*Every* *eye* *fastened* *itself* *with* *wondering* *interest* *upon* *Tom* *as* *he* *rose* *and* *took* *his* *place* *upon* *the* *stand* *.*
*Tom* *began* *--* *hesitatingly* *at* *first* *,* *but* *as* *he* *warmed* *to* *his* *subject* *his* *words* *flowed* *more* *and* *more* *easily* *;* *in* *a* *little* *while* *every* *sound* *ceased* *but* *his* *own* *voice* *;* *every* *eye* *fixed* *itself* *upon* *him* *;* *with* *parted* *lips* *and* *bated* *breath* *the* *audience* *hung* *upon* *his* *words* *,* *taking* *no* *note* *of* *time* *,* *rapt* *in* *the* *ghastly* *fascinations* *of* *the* *tale* *.*
*They* *arrived* *hot* *and* *panting* *,* *and* *threw* *themselves* *down* *in* *the* *shade* *of* *a* *neighboring* *elm* *to* *rest* *and* *have* *a* *smoke* *.*
*The* *boys* *stretched* *themselves* *upon* *the* *floor* *with* *their* *eyes* *to* *knotholes* *in* *the* *planking* *,* *and* *lay* *waiting* *,* *in* *a* *misery* *of* *fear* *.* *"* *They* *'ve* *stopped*
*He* *gathered* *himself* *up* *cursing* *,* *and* *his* *comrade* *said* *:* *"* *Now* *what* *'s* *the* *use* *of* *all* *that* *?*
*They* *were* *too* *much* *absorbed* *in* *hating* *themselves* *--* *hating* *the* *ill* *luck* *that* *made* *them* *take* *the* *spade* *and* *the* *pick* *there* *.*
*But* *the* *incidents* *of* *his* *adventure* *grew* *sensibly* *sharper* *and* *clearer* *under* *the* *attrition* *of* *thinking* *them* *over* *,* *and* *so* *he* *presently* *found* *himself* *leaning* *to* *the* *impression* *that* *the* *thing* *might* *not* *have* *been* *a* *dream* *,* *after* *all* *.*
*The* *tavern-keeper* *'s* *young* *son* *said* *it* *was* *kept* *locked* *all* *the* *time* *,* *and* *he* *never* *saw* *anybody* *go* *into* *it* *or* *come* *out* *of* *it* *except* *at* *night* *;* *he* *did* *not* *know* *any* *particular* *reason* *for* *this* *state* *of* *things* *;* *had* *had* *some* *little* *curiosity* *,* *but* *it* *was* *rather* *feeble* *;* *had* *made* *the* *most* *of* *the* *mystery* *by* *entertaining* *himself* *with* *the* *idea* *that* *that* *room* *was* *``* *ha* *'nted* *''* *;* *had* *noticed* *that* *there* *was* *a* *light* *in* *there* *the* *night* *before* *.*
*In* *his* *uneasiness* *Huck* *found* *himself* *drawing* *closer* *and* *closer* *to* *the* *alley* *;* *fearing* *all* *sorts* *of* *dreadful* *things* *,* *and* *momentarily* *expecting* *some* *catastrophe* *to* *happen* *that* *would* *take* *away* *his* *breath* *.*
*There* *was* *not* *much* *to* *take* *away* *,* *for* *he* *seemed* *only* *able* *to* *inhale* *it* *by* *thimblefuls* *,* *and* *his* *heart* *would* *soon* *wear* *itself* *out* *,* *the* *way* *it* *was* *beating* *.*
*And* *mind* *and* *behave* *yourself* *and* *do* *n't* *be* *any* *trouble* *.* *"*
*The* *sure* *fun* *of* *the* *evening* *outweighed* *the* *uncertain* *treasure* *;* *and* *,* *boy-like* *,* *he* *determined* *to* *yield* *to* *the* *stronger* *inclination* *and* *not* *allow* *himself* *to* *think* *of* *the* *box* *of* *money* *another* *time* *that* *day* *.*
*Ten* *o* *'clock* *came* *,* *and* *the* *noise* *of* *vehicles* *ceased* *,* *scattered* *lights* *began* *to* *wink* *out* *,* *all* *straggling* *foot-passengers* *disappeared* *,* *the* *village* *betook* *itself* *to* *its* *slumbers* *and* *left* *the* *small* *watcher* *alone* *with* *the* *silence* *and* *the* *ghosts* *.*
*Now* *he* *turned* *in* *his* *tracks* *,* *between* *the* *walls* *of* *sumach* *bushes* *--* *turned* *himself* *as* *carefully* *as* *if* *he* *were* *a* *ship* *--* *and* *then* *stepped* *quickly* *but* *cautiously* *along* *.*
*Huck* *was* *given* *a* *seat* *and* *the* *old* *man* *and* *his* *brace* *of* *tall* *sons* *speedily* *dressed* *themselves* *.*
*"* *Now* *,* *my* *boy* *,* *I* *hope* *you* *'re* *good* *and* *hungry* *,* *because* *breakfast* *will* *be* *ready* *as* *soon* *as* *the* *sun* *'s* *up* *,* *and* *we* *'ll* *have* *a* *piping* *hot* *one* *,* *too* *--* *make* *yourself* *easy* *about* *that* *!*
*Huck* *was* *in* *a* *close* *place* *--* *the* *inquiring* *eye* *was* *upon* *him* *--* *he* *would* *have* *given* *anything* *for* *material* *for* *a* *plausible* *answer* *--* *nothing* *suggested* *itself* *--* *the* *inquiring* *eye* *was* *boring* *deeper* *and* *deeper* *--* *a* *senseless* *reply* *offered* *--* *there* *was* *no* *time* *to* *weigh* *it* *,* *so* *at* *a* *venture* *he* *uttered* *it* *--* *feebly* *:*
*Under* *the* *roof* *vast* *knots* *of* *bats* *had* *packed* *themselves* *together* *,* *thousands* *in* *a* *bunch* *;* *the* *lights* *disturbed* *the* *creatures* *and* *they* *came* *flocking* *down* *by* *hundreds* *,* *squeaking* *and* *darting* *furiously* *at* *the* *candles* *.*
*He* *fell* *to* *blaming* *and* *abusing* *himself* *for* *getting* *her* *into* *this* *miserable* *situation* *;* *this* *had* *a* *better* *effect* *.*
*He* *was* *vastly* *gratified* *the* *next* *moment* *,* *to* *see* *the* *``* *Spaniard* *''* *take* *to* *his* *heels* *and* *get* *himself* *out* *of* *sight* *.*
*Tin* *pans* *and* *horns* *were* *added* *to* *the* *din* *,* *the* *population* *massed* *itself* *and* *moved* *toward* *the* *river* *,* *met* *the* *children* *coming* *in* *an* *open* *carriage* *drawn* *by* *shouting* *citizens* *,* *thronged* *around* *it* *,* *joined* *its* *homeward* *march* *,* *and* *swept* *magnificently* *up* *the* *main* *street* *roaring* *huzzah* *after* *huzzah* *!*
*When* *the* *cave* *door* *was* *unlocked* *,* *a* *sorrowful* *sight* *presented* *itself* *in* *the* *dim* *twilight* *of* *the* *place* *.*
*The* *great* *foundation-beam* *of* *the* *door* *had* *been* *chipped* *and* *hacked* *through* *,* *with* *tedious* *labor* *;* *useless* *labor* *,* *too* *,* *it* *was* *,* *for* *the* *native* *rock* *formed* *a* *sill* *outside* *it* *,* *and* *upon* *that* *stubborn* *material* *the* *knife* *had* *wrought* *no* *effect* *;* *the* *only* *damage* *done* *was* *to* *the* *knife* *itself* *.*
*This* *question* *was* *not* *entirely* *answered* *in* *Huck* *'s* *slow* *mind* *before* *he* *found* *himself* *pushed* *,* *along* *with* *Tom* *,* *into* *Mrs.* *Douglas* *'* *drawing-room* *.*
*She* *took* *them* *to* *a* *bedchamber* *and* *said* *:* *"* *Now* *wash* *and* *dress* *yourselves* *.*
*At* *the* *proper* *time* *Mr.* *Jones* *made* *his* *little* *speech* *,* *in* *which* *he* *thanked* *the* *widow* *for* *the* *honor* *she* *was* *doing* *himself* *and* *his* *sons* *,* *but* *said* *that* *there* *was* *another* *person* *whose* *modesty* *--* *And* *so* *forth* *and* *so* *on* *.*
It contained a bookcase : I soon *possessed* *myself* of a volume , taking care that it should be one stored with pictures .
The words in these introductory pages *connected* *themselves* with the succeeding vignettes , and gave significance to the rock standing up alone in a sea of billow and spray ; to the broken boat stranded on a desolate coast ; to the cold and ghastly moon glancing through bars of cloud at a wreck just sinking .
`` I want you to come here ; '' and *seating* *himself* in an arm-chair , he intimated by a gesture that I was to approach and stand before him .
He *gorged* *himself* habitually at table , which made him bilious , and gave him a dim and bleared eye and flabby cheeks .
In guarantee whereof , I *attached* *myself* to my seat by my hands .
Miss Abbot joined in -- " And you ought not to *think* *yourself* on an equality with the Misses Reed and Master Reed , because Missis kindly allows you to be brought up with them .
They will have a great deal of money , and you will have none : it is your place to be humble , and to try to *make* *yourself* agreeable to them . "
`` Unjust ! -- unjust ! '' said my reason , forced by the agonising stimulus into precocious though transitory power : and Resolve , equally wrought up , instigated some strange expedient to achieve escape from insupportable oppression -- as running away , or , if that could not be effected , never eating or drinking more , and *letting* *myself* die .
All said I was wicked , and perhaps I might be so ; what thought had I been but just conceiving of *starving* *myself* to death ?
It must have been most irksome to find *herself* *bound* by a hard-wrung pledge to stand in the stead of a parent to a strange child she could not love , and to see an uncongenial alien permanently intruded on her own family group .
Was it , I *asked* *myself* , a ray from the moon penetrating some aperture in the blind ?
`` I was knocked down , '' was the blunt explanation , jerked out of me by another pang of mortified pride ; `` but that did not make me ill , '' I added ; while Mr. Lloyd *helped* *himself* to a pinch of snuff .
But Bessie , as soon as she had dressed her young ladies , used to *take* *herself* off to the lively regions of the kitchen and housekeeper 's room , generally bearing the candle along with her .
I then sat with my doll on my knee till the fire got low , glancing round occasionally to make sure that nothing worse than *myself* *haunted* the shadowy room ; and when the embers sank to a dull red , I undressed hastily , tugging at knots and strings as I best might , and sought shelter from cold and darkness in my crib .
Not being in a condition to remove his doubt , I only cast my eyes down on the two large feet planted on the rug , and sighed , *wishing* *myself* far enough away .
I was about to propound a question , touching the manner in which that operation of changing my heart was to be performed , when Mrs. Reed interposed , telling me to sit down ; she then proceeded to carry on the *conversation* *herself* .
Now , uttered before a stranger , the accusation cut me to the heart ; I dimly perceived that she was already obliterating hope from the new phase of existence which she destined me to enter ; I felt , though I could not have expressed the feeling , that she was sowing aversion and unkindness along my future path ; I *saw* *myself* transformed under Mr. Brocklehurst 's eye into an artful , noxious child , and what could I do to remedy the injury ?
`` Madam , you may : she shall be placed in that nursery of chosen plants , and I trust she will *show* *herself* grateful for the inestimable privilege of her election . ''
Not without cause was this sentiment : Mrs. Reed looked frightened ; her work had slipped from her knee ; she was lifting up her hands , *rocking* *herself* to and fro , and even twisting her face as if she would cry .
Few children can eat when excited with the thoughts of a journey ; nor could I. Bessie , having pressed me in vain to take a few spoonfuls of the boiled milk and bread she had prepared for me , wrapped up some biscuits in a paper and put them into my bag ; then she helped me on with my pelisse and bonnet , and *wrapping* *herself* in a shawl , she and I left the nursery .
`` Silence ! '' ejaculated a voice ; not that of Miss Miller , but one of the upper teachers , a little and dark personage , smartly dressed , but of somewhat morose aspect , who *installed* *herself* at the top of one table , while a more buxom lady presided at the other .
I leant against a pillar of the verandah , drew my grey mantle close about me , and , trying to forget the cold which nipped me without , and the unsatisfied hunger which gnawed me within , *delivered* *myself* up to the employment of watching and thinking .
At that hour most of the others were sewing likewise ; but one class still stood round Miss Scatcherd 's chair reading , and as all was quiet , the subject of their lessons could be heard , together with the manner in which each girl *acquitted* *herself* , and the animadversions or commendations of Miss Scatcherd on the performance .
My first quarter at Lowood seemed an age ; and not the golden age either ; it comprised an irksome struggle with difficulties in *habituating* *myself* to new rules and unwonted tasks .
A long stride measured the schoolroom , and presently beside Miss Temple , who *herself* *had* risen , stood the same black column which had frowned on me so ominously from the hearthrug of Gateshead .
A brief address on those occasions would not be mistimed , wherein a judicious instructor would take the opportunity of referring to the sufferings of the primitive Christians ; to the torments of martyrs ; to the exhortations of our blessed *Lord* *Himself* , calling upon His disciples to take up their cross and follow Him ; to His warnings that man shall not live by bread alone , but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God ; to His divine consolations , `` If ye suffer hunger or thirst for My sake , happy are ye . ''
`` Madam , '' he pursued , `` I have a Master to serve whose kingdom is not of this world : my mission is to mortify in these girls the lusts of the flesh ; to teach them to *clothe* *themselves* with shame-facedness and sobriety , not with braided hair and costly apparel ; and each of the young persons before us has a string of hair twisted in plaits which *vanity* *itself* might have woven ; these , I repeat , must be cut off ; think of the time wasted , of -- '' Mr. Brocklehurst was here interrupted : three other visitors , ladies , now entered the room .
Now came a pause of ten minutes , during which I , by this time in perfect possession of my wits , observed all the female Brocklehursts produce their pocket-handkerchiefs and apply them to their optics , while the elderly lady *swayed* *herself* to and fro , and the two younger ones whispered , `` How shocking ! ''
Now I wept : Helen Burns was not here ; nothing sustained me ; left to myself I *abandoned* *myself* , and my tears watered the boards .
" Mr. Brocklehurst is not a god : nor is he even a great and admired man : he is little liked here ; he never took steps to *make* *himself* liked .
Miss Temple told Helen Burns to be seated in a low arm-chair on one side of the hearth , and *herself* *taking* another , she called me to her side .
" We shall think you what you *prove* *yourself* to be , my child .
You have been charged with falsehood ; *defend* *yourself* to me as well as you can .
She was pensive a few minutes , then *rousing* *herself* , she said cheerfully --
That *beck* *itself* was then a torrent , turbid and curbless : it tore asunder the wood , and sent a raving sound through the air , often thickened with wild rain or whirling sleet ; and for the forest on its banks , _ that _ showed only ranks of skeletons .
One evening , in the beginning of June , I had stayed out very late with Mary Ann in the wood ; we had , as usual , *separated* *ourselves* from the others , and had wandered far ; so far that we lost our way , and had to ask it at a lonely cottage , where a man and woman lived , who looked after a herd of half-wild swine that fed on the mast in the wood .
She *stirred* *herself* , put back the curtain , and I saw her face , pale , wasted , but quite composed : she looked so little changed that my fear was instantly dissipated .
`` Jane , your little feet are bare ; lie down and *cover* *yourself* with my quilt . ''
I had the means of an excellent education placed within my reach ; a fondness for some of my studies , and a desire to excel in all , together with a great delight in pleasing my teachers , especially such as I loved , urged me on : I *availed* *myself* fully of the advantages offered me .
I *imagined* *myself* only to be regretting my loss , and thinking how to repair it ; but when my reflections were concluded , and I looked up and found that the afternoon was gone , and evening far advanced , another discovery dawned on me , namely , that in the interval I had undergone a transforming process ; that my mind had put off all it had borrowed of Miss Temple -- or rather that she had taken with her the serene atmosphere I had been breathing in her vicinity -- and that now I was left in my natural element , and beginning to feel the stirring of old emotions .
The succeeding week seemed long : it came to an end at last , however , like all sublunary things , and once more , towards the close of a pleasant autumn day , I *found* *myself* afoot on the road to Lowton .
This note went the round of the committee , and at last , after what appeared to me most tedious delay , formal leave was given me to better my condition if I could ; and an assurance added , that as I had always *conducted* *myself* well , both as teacher and pupil , at Lowood , a testimonial of character and capacity , signed by the inspectors of that institution , should forthwith be furnished me .
I now *busied* *myself* in preparations : the fortnight passed rapidly .
It is a very strange sensation to inexperienced youth to *feel* *itself* quite alone in the world , cut adrift from every connection , uncertain whether the port to which it is bound can be reached , and prevented by many impediments from returning to that it has quitted .
I *bethought* *myself* to ring the bell .
`` Will you walk this way , ma 'am ? '' said the girl ; and I followed her across a square hall with high doors all round : she ushered me into a room whose double illumination of fire and candle at first dazzled me , contrasting as it did with the darkness to which my eyes had been for two hours inured ; when I could see , however , a cosy and agreeable picture *presented* *itself* to my view .
She conducted me to her own chair , and then began to remove my shawl and untie my bonnet-strings ; I begged she would not *give* *herself* so much trouble .
She returned ; with her own hands cleared her knitting apparatus and a book or two from the table , to make room for the tray which Leah now brought , and then *herself* *handed* me the refreshments .
I rose ; I *dressed* *myself* with care : obliged to be plain -- for I had no article of attire that was not made with extreme simplicity -- I was still by nature solicitous to be neat .
The present Mr. Rochester 's mother was a Fairfax , and second cousin to my husband : but I never presume on the connection -- in fact , it is nothing to me ; I *consider* *myself* quite in the light of an ordinary housekeeper : my employer is always civil , and I expect nothing more . "
Fortunately I had had the advantage of being taught French by a French lady ; and as I had always made a point of conversing with Madame Pierrot as often as I could , and had besides , during the last seven years , learnt a portion of French by heart daily -- *applying* *myself* to take pains with my accent , and imitating as closely as possible the pronunciation of my teacher , I had acquired a certain degree of readiness and correctness in the language , and was not likely to be much at a loss with Mademoiselle Adela .
Descending from her chair , she came and *placed* *herself* on my knee ; then , folding her little hands demurely before her , shaking back her curls and lifting her eyes to the ceiling , she commenced singing a song from some opera .
I then proposed to *occupy* *myself* till dinner-time in drawing some little sketches for her use .
Women are supposed to be very calm generally : but women feel just as men feel ; they need exercise for their faculties , and a field for their efforts , as much as their brothers do ; they suffer from too rigid a restraint , too absolute a stagnation , precisely as men would suffer ; and it is narrow-minded in their more privileged fellow-creatures to say that they ought to *confine* *themselves* to making puddings and knitting stockings , to playing on the piano and embroidering bags .
I obeyed him , and walked down to the traveller , by this time *struggling* *himself* free of his steed .
We obeyed , as in duty bound ; Adele wanted to take a seat on my knee , but she was ordered to *amuse* *herself* with Pilot .
`` Do n't *trouble* *yourself* to give her a character , '' returned Mr. Rochester : " eulogiums will not bias me ; I shall judge for myself .
`` Yes , there is your ' boite ' at last : take it into a corner , you genuine daughter of Paris , and *amuse* *yourself* with disembowelling it , '' said the deep and rather sarcastic voice of Mr. Rochester , proceeding from the depths of an immense easy-chair at the fireside .
Accordingly I sat and said nothing : `` If he expects me to talk for the mere sake of talking and showing off , he will find he has *addressed* *himself* to the wrong person , '' I thought .
The fact is , once for all , I do n't wish to treat you like an inferior : that is `` ( *correcting* *himself* ) , '' I claim only such superiority as must result from twenty years ' difference in age and a century 's advance in experience .
I smiled : I thought to *myself* *Mr.* Rochester _ is _ peculiar -- he seems to forget that he pays me 30 pounds per annum for receiving his orders .
`` I was thinking , sir , that very few masters would *trouble* *themselves* to inquire whether or not their paid subordinates were piqued and hurt by their orders . ''
Do you wonder that I avow this to you ? Know , that in the course of your future life you will often find *yourself* *elected* the involuntary confidant of your acquaintances ' secrets : people will instinctively find out , as I have done , that it is not your forte to tell of yourself , but to listen while others talk of themselves ; they will feel , too , that you listen with no malevolent scorn of their indiscretion , but with a kind of innate sympathy ; not the less comforting and encouraging because it is very unobtrusive in its manifestations . "
Now , when any vicious simpleton excites my disgust by his paltry ribaldry , I can not *flatter* *myself* that I am better than he : I am forced to confess that he and I are on a level .
" Not at all -- it bears the most gracious message in the world : for the rest , you are not my conscience-keeper , so do n't *make* *yourself* uneasy .
You seem to doubt me ; I do n't *doubt* *myself* : I know what my aim is , what my motives are ; and at this moment I pass a law , unalterable as that of the Medes and Persians , that both are right . "
Do n't *trouble* *yourself* to answer -- I see you laugh rarely ; but you can laugh very merrily : believe me , you are not naturally austere , any more than I am naturally vicious .
He *thought* *himself* her idol , ugly as he was : he believed , as he said , that she preferred his `` _ taille d 'athlete _ '' to the elegance of the Apollo Belvidere .
I was just beginning to stifle with the fumes of conservatory flowers and sprinkled essences , when I *bethought* *myself* to open the window and step out on to the balcony .
I *asked* *myself* . " What alienates him from the house ?
Though it was now dark , I knew he was awake ; because I heard him fulminating strange anathemas at *finding* *himself* lying in a pool of water .
Meantime , I am glad that you are the only person , *besides* *myself* , acquainted with the precise details of to-night 's incident .
I *bethought* *myself* of an expedient . `` I think I hear Mrs. Fairfax move , sir , '' said I.
I *compared* *myself* with her , and found we were different .
That a greater fool than Jane Eyre had never breathed the breath of life ; that a more fantastic idiot had never *surfeited* *herself* on sweet lies , and swallowed poison as if it were nectar .
Ere long , I had reason to *congratulate* *myself* on the course of wholesome discipline to which I had thus forced my feelings to submit .
I was actually *permitting* *myself* to experience a sickening sense of disappointment ; but rallying my wits , and recollecting my principles , I at once called my sensations to order ; and it was wonderful how I got over the temporary blunder -- how I cleared up the mistake of supposing Mr. Rochester 's movements a matter in which I had any cause to take a vital interest .
Not that I *humbled* *myself* by a slavish notion of inferiority : on the contrary , I just said -- " You have nothing to do with the master of Thornfield , further than to receive the salary he gives you for teaching his protegee , and to be grateful for such respectful and kind treatment as , if you do your duty , you have a right to expect at his hands .
Ere I *permitted* *myself* to request an explanation , I tied the string of Adele 's pinafore , which happened to be loose : having helped her also to another bun and refilled her mug with milk , I said , nonchalantly --
Some of them *threw* *themselves* in half-reclining positions on the sofas and ottomans : some bent over the tables and examined the flowers and books : the rest gathered in a group round the fire : all talked in a low but clear tone which seemed habitual to them .
Did I *forbid* *myself* to think of him in any other light than as a paymaster ?
Miss Ingram , who had now *seated* *herself* with proud grace at the piano , spreading out her snowy robes in queenly amplitude , commenced a brilliant prelude ; talking meantime .
Miss Ingram *placed* *herself* at her leader 's right hand ; the other diviners filled the chairs on each side of him and her .
What charade Colonel Dent and his party played , what word they chose , how they *acquitted* *themselves* , I no longer remember ; but I still see the consultation which followed each scene : I see Mr. Rochester turn to Miss Ingram , and Miss Ingram to him ; I see her incline her head towards him , till the jetty curls almost touch his shoulder and wave against his cheek ; I hear their mutual whisperings ; I recall their interchanged glances ; and something even of the feeling roused by the spectacle returns in memory at this moment .
But as matters really stood , to watch Miss Ingram 's efforts at fascinating Mr. Rochester , to witness their repeated failure -- *herself* *unconscious* that they did fail ; vainly fancying that each shaft launched hit the mark , and infatuatedly *pluming* *herself* on success , when her pride and self-complacency repelled further and further what she wished to allure -- to witness _ this _ , was to be at once under ceaseless excitation and ruthless restraint .
I *asked* *myself* . " Surely she can not truly like him , or not like him with true affection !
Blanche Ingram , after having repelled , by supercilious taciturnity , some efforts of Mrs. Dent and Mrs. Eshton to draw her into conversation , had first murmured over some sentimental tunes and airs on the piano , and then , having fetched a novel from the library , had *flung* *herself* in haughty listlessness on a sofa , and prepared to beguile , by the spell of fiction , the tedious hours of absence .
`` It appears I come at an inopportune time , madam , '' said he , `` when my friend , Mr. Rochester , is from home ; but I arrive from a very long journey , and I think I may presume so far on old and intimate acquaintance as to *instal* *myself* here till he returns . ''
`` Tell her she shall be put in the stocks if she does not *take* *herself* off , '' replied the magistrate .
`` I do n't care about it , mother ; you may *please* *yourself* : but I ought to warn you , I have no faith . ''
" Ah ! you *think* *yourself* sharp .
So far I have *governed* *myself* thoroughly .
I knew gipsies and fortune-tellers did not *express* *themselves* as this seeming old woman had *expressed* *herself* ; besides I had noted her feigned voice , her anxiety to conceal her features .
`` No ; he said he had known you long , and that he could take the liberty of *installing* *himself* here till you returned . '' " The devil he did !
*Calming* *himself* by an effort , he added --
Not , however , to go to bed : on the contrary , I began and *dressed* *myself* carefully .
`` I shall have to leave you in this room with this gentleman , for an hour , or perhaps two hours : you will sponge the blood as I do when it returns : if he feels faint , you will put the glass of water on that stand to his lips , and your salts to his nose . You will not speak to him on any pretext -- and -- Richard , it will be at the peril of your life if you speak to her : open your lips -- *agitate* *yourself* -- and I 'll not answer for the consequences . ''
" Well then , Jane , call to aid your fancy : -- suppose you were no longer a girl well reared and disciplined , but a wild boy indulged from childhood upwards ; *imagine* *yourself* in a remote foreign land ; conceive that you there commit a capital error , no matter of what nature or from what motives , but one whose consequences must follow you through life and taint all your existence .
I *have* *myself* -- I tell it you without parable -- been a worldly , dissipated , restless man ; and I believe I have found the instrument for my cure in -- "
`` Why , you see , Miss Eyre , it is not a common mishap : his life has been very wild : these last three years he *gave* *himself* up to strange ways , and his death was shocking . ''
How he died , God knows ! -- they say he *killed* *himself* . "
" John Reed is dead , too , sir : he *ruined* *himself* and half-ruined his family , and is supposed to have committed suicide .
`` How long is he going to stand with his back against that door ? '' I *asked* *myself* ; `` I want to commence my packing . ''
Will you *rest* *yourself* here an hour , Miss , and then I will go up with you ? "
I had taken a journey of a hundred miles to see my aunt , and I must stay with her till she was better -- or dead : as to her daughters ' pride or folly , I must put it on one side , *make* *myself* independent of it .
Provided with a case of pencils , and some sheets of paper , I used to take a seat apart from them , near the window , and busy myself in sketching fancy vignettes , representing any scene that happened momentarily to *shape* *itself* in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of imagination : a glimpse of sea between two rocks ; the rising moon , and a ship crossing its disk ; a group of reeds and water-flags , and a naiad 's head , crowned with lotus- flowers , rising out of them ; an elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow 's nest , under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom .
She had an alarm to call her up early . I know not how she *occupied* *herself* before breakfast , but after that meal she divided her time into regular portions , and each hour had its allotted task .
You need not think that because we chanced to be born of the same parents , I shall suffer you to fasten me down by even the feeblest claim : I can tell you this -- if the whole human race , *ourselves* *excepted* , were swept away , and we two stood alone on the earth , I would leave you in the old world , and *betake* *myself* to the new . "
`` You might have *spared* *yourself* the trouble of delivering that tirade , '' answered Georgiana .
I *bethought* *myself* to go upstairs and see how the dying woman sped , who lay there almost unheeded : the very servants paid her but a remittent attention : the hired nurse , being little looked after , would slip out of the room whenever she could .
`` I am very ill , I know , '' she said ere long . " I was trying to *turn* *myself* a few minutes since , and find I can not move a limb .
`` After all , it is of no great importance , perhaps , '' she murmured to herself : `` and then I may get better ; and to *humble* *myself* so to her is painful . ''
I shall *devote* *myself* for a time to the examination of the Roman Catholic dogmas , and to a careful study of the workings of their system : if I find it to be , as I half suspect it is , the one best calculated to ensure the doing of all things decently and in order , I shall embrace the tenets of Rome and probably take the veil . "
Mrs. Fairfax surmised that he was gone to make arrangements for his wedding , as he had talked of purchasing a new carriage : she said the idea of his marrying Miss Ingram still seemed strange to her ; but from what everybody said , and from what she had *herself* *seen* , she could no longer doubt that the event would shortly take place .
I felt glad as the road shortened before me : so glad that I stopped once to *ask* *myself* what that joy meant : and to remind reason that it was not to my home I was going , or to a permanent resting-place , or to a place where fond friends looked out for me and waited my arrival .
And then I strangled a new-born agony -- a deformed thing which I could not *persuade* *myself* to own and rear -- and ran on .
`` Yes , sir , I will advertise immediately : and meantime , I suppose -- '' I was going to say , `` I suppose I may stay here , till I find another shelter to *betake* *myself* to : '' but I stopped , feeling it would not do to risk a long sentence , for my voice was not quite under command .
`` In about a month I hope to be a bridegroom , '' continued Mr. Rochester ; `` and in the interim , I shall *myself* *look* out for employment and an asylum for you . ''
I never go over to Ireland , not *having* *myself* much of a fancy for the country .
Still I did not answer , and still I *writhed* *myself* from his grasp : for I was still incredulous .
None : as I have taken pains to prove : I caused a rumour to reach her that my fortune was not a third of what was supposed , and after that I *presented* *myself* to see the result ; it was coldness both from her and her mother . I would not -- I could not -- marry Miss Ingram .
`` I will *myself* *put* the diamond chain round your neck , and the circlet on your forehead , -- which it will become : for nature , at least , has stamped her patent of nobility on this brow , Jane ; and I will clasp the bracelets on these fine wrists , and load these fairy-like fingers with rings . ''
`` I will make the world acknowledge you a beauty , too , '' he went on , while I really became uneasy at the strain he had adopted , because I felt he was either *deluding* *himself* or trying to delude me .
I would as soon see you , Mr. Rochester , tricked out in stage-trappings , as *myself* *clad* in a court-lady 's robe ; and I do n't call you handsome , sir , though I love you most dearly : far too dearly to flatter you .
After a brief stay there , I shall bear my treasure to regions nearer the sun : to French vineyards and Italian plains ; and she shall see whatever is famous in old story and in modern record : she shall taste , too , of the life of cities ; and she shall learn to *value* *herself* by just comparison with others . "
I loved him very much -- more than I could *trust* *myself* to say -- more than words had power to express .
Seeing me , she *roused* *herself* : she made a sort of effort to smile , and framed a few words of congratulation ; but the smile expired , and the sentence was abandoned unfinished .
I knew such an idea would shock , perhaps offend you ; and you were so discreet , and so thoroughly modest and sensible , I hoped you might be trusted to *protect* *yourself* .
Try and keep Mr. Rochester at a distance : *distrust* *yourself* as well as him .
`` She will want to *warm* *herself* : what will she do for a fire ? ''
By dint of entreaties expressed in energetic whispers , I reduced the half-dozen to two : these however , he vowed he would *select* *himself* .
" I 'll be *preparing* *myself* to go out as a missionary to preach liberty to them that are enslaved -- your harem inmates amongst the rest .
I 'll get admitted there , and I 'll stir up mutiny ; and you , three-tailed bashaw as you are , sir , shall in a trice find *yourself* *fettered* amongst our hands : nor will I , for one , consent to cut your bonds till you have signed a charter , the most liberal that despot ever yet conferred . "
Being pushed unceremoniously to one side -- which was precisely what I wished -- he usurped my place , and proceeded to *accompany* *himself* : for he could play as well as sing .
Here I heard *myself* *apostrophised* as a `` hard little thing ; '' and it was added , `` any other woman would have been melted to marrow at hearing such stanzas crooned in her praise . ''
Mr. Rochester had *himself* *written* the direction , `` Mrs. Rochester , -- - Hotel , London , '' on each : I could not *persuade* *myself* to affix them , or to have them affixed .
As I looked up at them , the moon appeared momentarily in that part of the sky which filled their fissure ; her disk was blood-red and half overcast ; she seemed to throw on me one bewildered , dreary glance , and *buried* *herself* again instantly in the deep drift of cloud .
Here and there I strayed through the orchard , gathered up the apples with which the grass round the tree roots was thickly strewn ; then I *employed* *myself* in dividing the ripe from the unripe ; I carried them into the house and put them away in the store-room .
I lingered ; the moon *shut* *herself* wholly within her chamber , and drew close her curtain of dense cloud : the night grew dark ; rain came driving fast on the gale .
He *checked* *himself* in his exultation to demand , " But is there anything the matter , Janet , that you come to meet me at such an hour ?
I thought how I would carry down to you the square of unembroidered blond I had *myself* *prepared* as a covering for my low-born head , and ask if that was not good enough for a woman who could bring her husband neither fortune , beauty , nor connections .
She seemed the emblem of my past life ; and here I was now to *array* *myself* to meet , the dread , but adored , type of my unknown future day .
Mr. Rochester heard , but heeded not : he stood stubborn and rigid , making no movement but to *possess* *himself* of my hand .
The house cleared , I *shut* *myself* in , fastened the bolt that none might intrude , and proceeded -- not to weep , not to mourn , I was yet too calm for that , but -- mechanically to take off the wedding dress , and replace it by the stuff gown I had worn yesterday , as I thought , for the last time .
`` No ; you shall *tear* *yourself* away , none shall help you : you shall *yourself* *pluck* out your right eye ; *yourself* *cut* off your right hand : your heart shall be the victim , and you the priest to transfix it . ''
I could not soon *recover* *myself* .
So you shun me ? -- you *shut* *yourself* up and grieve alone !
What do you say to that ? I see you can say nothing in the first place , you are faint still , and have enough to do to draw your breath ; in the second place , you can not yet *accustom* *yourself* to accuse and revile me , and besides , the flood-gates of tears are opened , and they would rush out if you spoke much ; and you have no desire to expostulate , to upbraid , to make a scene : you are thinking how _ to act _ -- _ talking _ you consider is of no use . I know you -- I am on my guard . "
You intend to *make* *yourself* a complete stranger to me : to live under this roof only as Adele 's governess ; if ever I say a friendly word to you , if ever a friendly feeling inclines you again to me , you will say , -- ' That man had nearly made me his mistress : I must be ice and rock to him ; ' and ice and rock you will accordingly become . "
when I found that I could not pass a single evening , nor even a single hour of the day with her in comfort ; that kindly conversation could not be sustained between us , because whatever topic I started , immediately received from her a turn at once coarse and trite , perverse and imbecile -- when I perceived that I should never have a quiet or settled household , because no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her violent and unreasonable temper , or the vexations of her absurd , contradictory , exacting orders -- even then I *restrained* *myself* : I eschewed upbraiding , I curtailed remonstrance ; I tried to devour my repentance and disgust in secret ; I repressed the deep antipathy I felt .
And I could not *rid* *myself* of it by any legal proceedings : for the doctors now discovered that _ my wife _ was mad -- her excesses had prematurely developed the germs of insanity .
In the eyes of the world , I was doubtless covered with grimy dishonour ; but I resolved to be clean in my own sight -- and to the last I repudiated the contamination of her crimes , and *wrenched* *myself* from connection with her mental defects .
I have a right to *deliver* *myself* from it if I can .
" I said this whilst I knelt down at , and unlocked a trunk which contained a brace of loaded pistols : I mean to *shoot* *myself* .
You may take the maniac with you to England ; confine her with due attendance and precautions at Thornfield : then *travel* *yourself* to what clime you will , and form what new tie you like .
The lunatic is both cunning and malignant ; she has never failed to take advantage of her guardian 's temporary lapses ; once to secrete the knife with which she stabbed her brother , and twice to *possess* *herself* of the key of her cell , and issue therefrom in the night-time .
I *transformed* *myself* into a will-o ' -the-wisp .
I felt the truth of these words ; and I drew from them the certain inference , that if I were so far to *forget* *myself* and all the teaching that had ever been instilled into me , as -- under any pretext -- with any justification -- through any temptation -- to become the successor of these poor girls , he would one day regard me with the same feeling which now in his mind desecrated their memory .
When at last she left you , you lapsed at once into deep reverie : you *betook* *yourself* slowly to pace the gallery .
Your garb and manner were restricted by rule ; your air was often diffident , and altogether that of one refined by nature , but absolutely unused to society , and a good deal afraid of *making* *herself* disadvantageously conspicuous by some solecism or blunder ; yet when addressed , you lifted a keen , a daring , and a glowing eye to your interlocutor 's face : there was penetration and power in each glance you gave ; when plied by close questions , you found ready and round answers .
I *permitted* *myself* the delight of being kind to you ; kindness stirred emotion soon : your face became soft in expression , your tones gentle ; I liked my name pronounced by your lips in a grateful happy accent .
`` I do , '' *extricating* *myself* from restraint rapidly and completely .
The more solitary , the more friendless , the more unsustained I am , the more I will *respect* *myself* .
Conqueror I might be of the house ; but the inmate would escape to heaven before I could call *myself* *possessor* of its clay dwelling-place .
He turned away ; he *threw* *himself* on his face on the sofa .
He would *feel* *himself* forsaken ; his love rejected : he would suffer ; perhaps grow desperate .
In the midst of my pain of heart and frantic effort of principle , I *abhorred* *myself* .
It is the clergyman 's function to help -- at least with advice -- those who wished to *help* *themselves* .
And why can not I *reconcile* *myself* to the prospect of death ?
I began once more to *know* *myself* ; and when Mr. St. John demanded an account -- which at present I was far too weak to render -- I said after a brief pause --
After a weary process , and resting every five minutes , I succeeded in *dressing* *myself* .
`` Whatever can not ye *keep* *yourself* for , then ? ''
" I have *kept* *myself* ; and , I trust , shall *keep* *myself* again .
I feel more inclination to put you in the way of *keeping* *yourself* , and shall endeavour to do so ; but observe , my sphere is narrow .
Often , of an evening , when he sat at the window , his desk and papers before him , he would cease reading or writing , rest his chin on his hand , and *deliver* *himself* up to I know not what course of thought ; but that it was perturbed and exciting might be seen in the frequent flash and changeful dilation of his eye .
`` Yes ; I wish to know whether you have heard of any service I can *offer* *myself* to undertake ? ''
I am obscure : Rivers is an old name ; but of the three sole descendants of the race , two earn the dependant 's crust among strangers , and the third *considers* *himself* an alien from his native country -- not only for life , but in death .
" And since I am *myself* *poor* and obscure , I can offer you but a service of poverty and obscurity . _ You _ may even think it degrading -- for I see now your habits have been what the world calls refined : your tastes lean to the ideal , and your society has at least been amongst the educated ; but _ I _ consider that no service degrades which can better our race .
I shall leave the place probably in the course of a twelve-month ; but while I do stay , I will *exert* *myself* to the utmost for its improvement .
You hear now how I *contradict* *myself* .
Mary and I would have *esteemed* *ourselves* rich with a thousand pounds each ; and to St. John such a sum would have been valuable , for the good it would have enabled him to do . "
Not to *deceive* *myself* , I must reply -- No : I felt desolate to a degree .
But let me not hate and *despise* *myself* too much for these feelings ; I know them to be wrong -- that is a great step gained ; I shall strive to overcome them .
Meantime , let me *ask* *myself* one question -- Which is better ? -- To have surrendered to temptation ; listened to passion ; made no painful effort -- no struggle ; -- but to have sunk down in the silken snare ; fallen asleep on the flowers covering it ; wakened in a southern clime , amongst the luxuries of a pleasure villa : to have been now living in France , Mr. Rochester 's mistress ; delirious with his love half my time -- for he would -- oh , yes , he would have loved me well for a while .
While I looked , I *thought* *myself* happy , and was surprised to *find* *myself* ere long weeping -- and why ?
I naturally *asked* *myself* that question as I saw him turn to her and look at her ; and , as naturally , I sought the answer to the inquiry in his countenance .
There was a difference amongst them as amongst the educated ; and when I got to know them , and they me , this difference rapidly *developed* *itself* .
Many *showed* *themselves* obliging , and amiable too ; and I discovered amongst them not a few examples of natural politeness , and innate self-respect , as well as of excellent capacity , that won both my goodwill and my admiration .
I *promised* *myself* the pleasure of colouring it ; and , as it was getting late then , I told her she must come and sit another day .
I had also *made* *myself* neat , and had now the afternoon before me to spend as I would .
`` With all his firmness and self-control , '' thought I , " he *tasks* *himself* too far : locks every feeling and pang within -- expresses , confesses , imparts nothing .
And now it is deluged with a nectarous flood -- the young germs swamped -- delicious poison cankering them : now I see *myself* *stretched* on an ottoman in the drawing-room at Vale Hall at my bride Rosamond Oliver 's feet : she is talking to me with her sweet voice -- gazing down on me with those eyes your skilful hand has copied so well -- smiling at me with these coral lips .
When I colour , and when I shade before Miss Oliver , I do not *pity* *myself* .
`` You would *describe* *yourself* as a mere pagan philosopher , '' I said .
I *bethought* *myself* to talk about the school and my scholars .
Mrs. Reed kept the orphan ten years : whether it was happy or not with her , I can not say , never having been told ; but at the end of that time she transferred it to a place you know -- being no other than Lowood School , where you so long *resided* *yourself* .
One does not jump , and spring , and shout hurrah ! at hearing one has got a fortune ; one begins to consider responsibilities , and to ponder business ; on a base of steady satisfaction rise certain grave cares , and we *contain* *ourselves* , and brood over our bliss with a solemn brow .
`` No ; to-night ! -- to-night ! '' and as he turned from the door , I *placed* *myself* between it and him .
I stopped : I could not *trust* *myself* to entertain , much less to express , the thought that rushed upon me -- that *embodied* *itself* , -- that , in a second , stood out a strong , solid probability .
Circumstances *knit* *themselves* , *fitted* *themselves* , shot into order : the chain that had been lying hitherto a formless lump of links was drawn out straight , -- every ring was perfect , the connection complete .
Diana said they would both *consider* *themselves* rich with a thousand pounds , so with five thousand they will do very well . "
`` Perhaps , if you *explained* *yourself* a little more fully , I should comprehend better . ''
I like Moor House , and I will live at Moor House ; I like Diana and Mary , and I will *attach* *myself* for life to Diana and Mary .
" Jane , I excuse you for the present : two months ' grace I allow you for the full enjoyment of your new position , and for *pleasing* *yourself* with this late-found charm of relationship ; but _ then _ , I hope you will begin to look beyond Moor House and Morton , and sisterly society , and the selfish calm and sensual comfort of civilised affluence .
And try to restrain the disproportionate fervour with which you *throw* *yourself* into commonplace home pleasures .
I comprehended how he should *despise* *himself* for the feverish influence it exercised over him ; how he should wish to stifle and destroy it ; how he should mistrust its ever conducting permanently to his happiness or hers .
As I exchanged a translation for an exercise , I happened to look his way : there I *found* *myself* under the influence of the ever-watchful blue eye .
As for me , I daily wished more to please him ; but to do so , I felt daily more and more that I must disown half my nature , stifle half my faculties , wrest my tastes from their original bent , *force* *myself* to the adoption of pursuits for which I had no natural vocation .
Or who , that ever was truly called , believed *himself* *worthy* of the summons ?
With St. Paul , I *acknowledge* *myself* the chiefest of sinners ; but I do not suffer this sense of my personal vileness to daunt me .
Jane , you are docile , diligent , disinterested , faithful , constant , and courageous ; very gentle , and very heroic : cease to *mistrust* *yourself* -- I can trust you unreservedly .
My work , which had appeared so vague , so hopelessly diffuse , *condensed* *itself* as he proceeded , and assumed a definite form under his shaping hand .
`` Very willingly , '' he rejoined ; and rising , he strode a little distance up the pass , *threw* *himself* down on a swell of heath , and there lay still .
But as it is , either our union must be consecrated and sealed by marriage , or it can not exist : practical obstacles *oppose* *themselves* to any other plan .
I said briefly ; and I looked at his features , beautiful in their harmony , but strangely formidable in their still severity ; at his brow , commanding but not open ; at his eyes , bright and deep and searching , but never soft ; at his tall imposing figure ; and *fancied* *myself* in idea _ his wife _ .
Refuse to be my wife , and you *limit* *yourself* for ever to a track of selfish ease and barren obscurity .
St. John -- you know him -- would urge you to impossibilities : with him there would be no permission to rest during the hot hours ; and unfortunately , I have noticed , whatever he exacts , you *force* *yourself* to perform .
`` I must indeed , '' I said ; " for when just now I repeated the offer of serving him for a deacon , he *expressed* *himself* shocked at my want of decency .
" You should *hear* *himself* on the subject .
I mounted to my chamber ; *locked* *myself* in ; fell on my knees ; and prayed in my way -- a different way to St. John 's , but effective in its own fashion . I seemed to penetrate very near a Mighty Spirit ; and my soul rushed out in gratitude at His feet .
I *busied* *myself* for an hour or two with arranging my things in my chamber , drawers , and wardrobe , in the order wherein I should wish to leave them during a brief absence .
The suggestion was sensible , and yet I could not *force* *myself* to act on it .
The host *himself* *brought* my breakfast into the parlour .
It is excusable , for she had a hard life of it : but still it was dangerous ; for when Mrs. Poole was fast asleep after the gin and water , the mad lady , who was as cunning as a witch , would take the keys out of her pocket , *let* *herself* out of her chamber , and go roaming about the house , doing any wild mischief that came into her head .
He broke off acquaintance with all the gentry , and *shut* *himself* up like a hermit at the Hall . "
As he came down the great staircase at last , after Mrs. Rochester had *flung* *herself* from the battlements , there was a great crash -- all fell .
Iron gates between granite pillars showed me where to enter , and passing through them , I *found* *myself* at once in the twilight of close-ranked trees .
He suddenly seemed to *arouse* *himself* : the conviction of the reality of all this seized him .
`` But as you are rich , Jane , you have now , no doubt , friends who will look after you , and not suffer you to *devote* *yourself* to a blind lameter like me ? ''
But no hint to that effect escaping him and his countenance becoming more overcast , I suddenly remembered that I might have been all wrong , and was perhaps playing the fool unwittingly ; and I began gently to *withdraw* *myself* from his arms -- but he eagerly snatched me closer .
But I would not be lachrymose : I dashed off the salt drops , and *busied* *myself* with preparing breakfast .
Violent as he had seemed in his despair , he , in truth , loved me far too well and too tenderly to *constitute* *himself* my tyrant : he would have given me half his fortune , without demanding so much as a kiss in return , rather than I should have flung *myself* *friendless* on the wide world .
I *hold* *myself* supremely blest -- blest beyond what language can express ; because I am my husband 's life as fully as he is mine .
His is the exaction of the apostle , who speaks but for Christ , when he says -- `` Whosoever will come after me , let him *deny* *himself* , and take up his cross and follow me . '' His is the ambition of the high master-spirit , which aims to fill a place in the first rank of those who are redeemed from the earth -- who stand without fault before the throne of God , who share the last mighty victories of the Lamb , who are called , and chosen , and faithful .
*Himself* *has* hitherto sufficed to the toil , and the toil draws near its close : his glorious sun hastens to its setting .
The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way , and then dipped suddenly down , so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about *stopping* *herself* before she *found* *herself* falling down a very deep well .
There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ' Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it 's getting ! ' She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she *found* *herself* in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
After a while , finding that nothing more happened , she decided on going into the garden at once ; but , alas for poor Alice ! when she got to the door , she found she had forgotten the little golden key , and when she went back to the table for it , she found she could not possibly reach it : she could see it quite plainly through the glass , and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table , but it was too slippery ; and when she had *tired* *herself* out with trying , the poor little thing sat down and cried .
' Come , there 's no use in crying like that ! ' said Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute ! ' She generally *gave* *herself* very good advice , ( though she very seldom followed it ) , and sometimes she *scolded* *herself* so severely as to bring tears into her eyes ; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having *cheated* *herself* in a game of croquet she was playing against herself , for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people .
I 'm sure I sha n't be able ! I shall be a great deal too far off to *trouble* *myself* about you : you must manage the best way you can ; -- but I must be kind to them , ' thought Alice , ' or perhaps they wo n't walk the way I want to go !
Alice took up the fan and gloves , and , as the hall was very hot , she kept *fanning* *herself* all the time she went on talking : ' Dear , dear ! How queer everything is to-day !
' I must be growing small again . ' She got up and went to the table to *measure* *herself* by it , and found that , as nearly as she could guess , she was now about two feet high , and was going on shrinking rapidly : she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding , and she dropped it hastily , just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether .
' That was a narrow escape ! ' said Alice , a good deal frightened at the sudden change , but very glad to *find* *herself* still in existence ; ' and now for the garden ! ' and she ran with all speed back to the little door : but , alas ! the little door was shut again , and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before , ' and things are worse than ever , ' thought the poor child , ' for I never was so small as this before , never !
The first question of course was , how to get dry again : they had a consultation about this , and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find *herself* *talking* familiarly with them , as if she had known them all her life .
There was exactly one a-piece all round . ' But she must have a *prize* *herself* , you know , ' said the Mouse .
' A knot ! ' said Alice , always ready to *make* *herself* useful , and looking anxiously about her .
Some of the birds hurried off at once : one old Magpie began *wrapping* *itself* up very carefully , remarking , ' I really must be getting home ; the night-air does n't suit my throat ! ' and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to its children , ' Come away , my dears ! It 's high time you were all in bed ! '
Oh , I should n't like that ! " Oh , you foolish Alice ! ' she *answered* *herself* . ' How can you learn lessons in here ?
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared ; but she ran off as hard as she could , and soon found *herself* *safe* in a thick wood .
Hardly knowing what she did , she picked up a little bit of stick , and held it out to the puppy ; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once , with a yelp of delight , and rushed at the stick , and made believe to worry it ; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle , to *keep* *herself* from being run over ; and the moment she appeared on the other side , the puppy made another rush at the stick , and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it ; then Alice , thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse , and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet , ran round the thistle again ; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick , running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back , and barking hoarsely all the while , till at last it sat down a good way off , panting , with its tongue hanging out of its mouth , and its great eyes half shut .
' And yet what a dear little puppy it was ! ' said Alice , as she leant against a buttercup to *rest* *herself* , and *fanned* *herself* with one of the leaves : ' I should have liked teaching it tricks very much , if -- if I 'd only been the right size to do it !
She *stretched* *herself* up on tiptoe , and peeped over the edge of the mushroom , and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar , that was sitting on the top with its arms folded , quietly smoking a long hookah , and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else .
' What do you mean by that ? ' said the Caterpillar sternly . ' *Explain* *yourself* ! '
' I ca n't *explain* *myself* , I 'm afraid , sir ' said Alice , ' because I 'm not myself , you see . '
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar 's making such very short remarks , and she *drew* *herself* up and said , very gravely , ' I think , you ought to tell me who you are , first . '
' I have answered three questions , and that is enough , ' Said his father ; ' do n't *give* *yourself* airs ! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff ?
' It is a very good height indeed ! ' said the Caterpillar angrily , *rearing* *itself* upright as it spoke ( it was exactly three inches high ) .
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice , and *shook* *itself* .
After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands , and she set to work very carefully , nibbling first at one and then at the other , and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter , until she had succeeded in *bringing* *herself* down to her usual height .
' Whoever lives there , ' thought Alice , ' it 'll never do to come upon them this size : why , I should frighten them out of their wits ! ' So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again , and did not venture to go near the house till she had *brought* *herself* down to nine inches high .
The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it , and kept *doubling* *itself* up and *straightening* *itself* out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it was as much as she could do to hold it .
As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it , ( which was to twist it up into a sort of knot , and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot , so as to prevent its *undoing* *itself* , ) she carried it out into the open air . ' If I do n't take this child away with me , ' thought Alice , ' they 're sure to kill it in a day or two : would n't it be murder to leave it behind ? '
It was so large a house , that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom , and *raised* *herself* to about two feet high : even then she walked up towards it rather timidly , saying to herself ' Suppose it should be raving mad after all !
The Dormouse shook its head impatiently , and said , without opening its eyes , ' Of course , of course ; just what I was going to *remark* *myself* . '
Here the Dormouse *shook* *itself* , and began singing in its sleep ' Twinkle , twinkle , twinkle , twinkle -- ' and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop .
Alice did not quite know what to say to this : so she *helped* *herself* to some tea and bread-and-butter , and then turned to the Dormouse , and repeated her question . ' Why did they live at the bottom of a well ? '
Once more she *found* *herself* in the long hall , and close to the little glass table . ' Now , I 'll manage better this time , ' she said to herself , and began by taking the little golden key , and unlocking the door that led into the garden .
Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom ( she had kept a piece of it in her pocket ) till she was about a foot high : then she walked down the little passage : and then -- she *found* *herself* at last in the beautiful garden , among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains .
Seven flung down his brush , and had just begun ' Well , of all the unjust things -- ' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice , as she stood watching them , and he *checked* *himself* suddenly : the others looked round also , and all of them bowed low .
So you see , Miss , we 're doing our best , afore she comes , to -- ' At this moment Five , who had been anxiously looking across the garden , called out ' The Queen ! The Queen ! ' and the three gardeners instantly *threw* *themselves* flat upon their faces .
He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke , and then *raised* *himself* upon tiptoe , put his mouth close to her ear , and whispered ' She 's under sentence of execution . '
Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life ; it was all ridges and furrows ; the balls were live hedgehogs , the mallets live flamingoes , and the soldiers had to *double* *themselves* up and to stand on their hands and feet , to make the arches .
The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo : she succeeded in getting its body tucked away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with its legs hanging down , but generally , just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out , and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head , it would twist *itself* *round* and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing : and when she had got its head down , and was going to begin again , it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself , and was in the act of crawling away : besides all this , there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to , and , as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground , Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed .
' I do n't think they play at all fairly , ' Alice began , in rather a complaining tone , ' and they all quarrel so dreadfully one ca n't hear *oneself* *speak* -- and they do n't seem to have any rules in particular ; at least , if there are , nobody attends to them -- and you 've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive ; for instance , there 's the arch I 've got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground -- and I should have croqueted the Queen 's hedgehog just now , only it ran away when it saw mine coming ! '
' Everything 's got a moral , if only you can find it . ' And she *squeezed* *herself* up closer to Alice 's side as she spoke .
' I quite agree with you , ' said the Duchess ; ' and the moral of that is -- `` Be what you would seem to be '' -- or if you 'd like it put more simply -- `` Never *imagine* *yourself* not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise . '' '
' Pray do n't *trouble* *yourself* to say it any longer than that , ' said Alice .
' You may not have lived much under the sea -- ' ( ' I have n't , ' said Alice ) -- ' and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster -- ' ( Alice began to say ' I once tasted -- ' but *checked* *herself* hastily , and said ' No , never ' )
' Yes , ' said Alice , ' I 've often seen them at dinn -- ' she *checked* *herself* hastily .
At this the whole pack rose up into the air , and came flying down upon her : she gave a little scream , half of fright and half of anger , and tried to beat them off , and found *herself* *lying* on the bank , with her head in the lap of her sister , who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face .
So she sat on , with closed eyes , and half *believed* *herself* in Wonderland , though she knew she had but to open them again , and all would change to dull reality -- the grass would be only rustling in the wind , and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds -- the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells , and the Queen 's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy -- and the sneeze of the baby , the shriek of the Gryphon , and all the other queer noises , would change ( she knew ) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard -- while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle 's heavy sobs .
For two hundred francs a year he managed to live on the border of the provinces of Caux and Picardy , in a kind of place half farm , half private house ; and here , soured , eaten up with regrets , cursing his luck , jealous of everyone , he *shut* *himself* up at the age of forty-five , sick of men , he said , and determined to live at peace .
She called on the lawyers , the president , remembered when bills fell due , got them renewed , and at home ironed , sewed , washed , looked after the workmen , paid the accounts , while he , *troubling* *himself* about nothing , eternally besotted in sleepy sulkiness , whence he only *roused* *himself* to say disagreeable things to her , sat smoking by the fire and spitting into the cinders .
To *shut* *himself* up every evening in the dirty public room , to push about on marble tables the small sheep bones with black dots , seemed to him a fine proof of his freedom , which raised him in his own esteem .
Still sleepy from the warmth of his bed , he *let* *himself* be lulled by the quiet trot of his horse .
By his side on a chair stood a large decanter of brandy , whence he *poured* *himself* a little from time to time to keep up his spirits ; but as soon as he caught sight of the doctor his elation subsided , and instead of swearing , as he had been doing for the last twelve hours , began to groan freely .
She *drew* *herself* up , scarlet , and looked at him over her shoulder as she handed him his whip .
As to Charles , he did not stop to *ask* *himself* why it was a pleasure to him to go to the Bertaux . Had he done so , he would , no doubt , have attributed his zeal to the importance of the case , or perhaps to the money he hoped to make by it . Was it for this , however , that his visits to the farm formed a delightful exception to the meagre occupations of his life ? On these days he rose early , set off at a gallop , urging on his horse , then got down to wipe his boots in the grass and put on black gloves before entering . He liked going into the courtyard , and noticing the gate turn against his shoulder , the cock crow on the wall , the lads run to meet him . He liked the granary and the stables ; he liked old Rouault , who pressed his hand and called him his saviour ; he like the small wooden shoes of Mademoiselle Emma on the scoured flags of the kitchen - her high heels made her a little taller ; and when she walked in front of him , the wooden soles springing up quickly struck with a sharp sound against the leather of her boots .
At first she *solaced* *herself* by allusions that Charles did not understand , then by casual observations that he let pass for fear of a storm , finally by open apostrophes to which he knew not what to answer .
It is not worth while making such a fuss , or *showing* *herself* at church on Sundays in a silk gown like a countess .
`` I know what it is , '' said he , clapping him on the shoulder ; `` I 've been through it . When I lost my dear departed , I went into the fields to be quite alone . I fell at the foot of a tree ; I cried ; I called on God ; I talked nonsense to Him . I wanted to be like the moles that I saw on the branches , their insides swarming with worms , dead , and an end of it . And when I thought that there were others at that very moment with their nice little wives holding them in their embrace , I struck great blows on the earth with my stick . I was pretty well mad with not eating ; the very idea of going to a cafe disgusted me - you would n't believe it . Well , quite softly , one day following another , a spring on a winter , and an autumn after a summer , this wore away , piece by piece , crumb by crumb ; it passed away , it is gone , I should say it has sunk ; for something always remains at the bottom as one would say - a weight here , at one 's heart . But since it is the lot of all of us , one must not give way altogether , and , because others have died , want to die too . You must *pull* *yourself* together , Monsieur Bovary . It will pass away . Come to see us ; my daughter thinks of you now and again , do you know , and she says you are forgetting her . Spring will soon be here . We 'll have some rabbit-shooting in the warrens to amuse you a bit . ''
Charles *found* *himself* laughing , but the remembrance of his wife suddenly coming back to him depressed him .
He could now change his meal-times , go in or out without explanation , and when he was very tired *stretch* *himself* at full length on his bed .
So he nursed and *coddled* *himself* and accepted the consolations that were offered him .
He had an aimless hope , and was vaguely happy ; he *thought* *himself* better looking as he brushed his whiskers before the looking-glass .
Some flies on the table were crawling up the glasses that had been used , and buzzing as they *drowned* *themselves* in the dregs of the cider .
But he never saw her in his thoughts other than he had seen her the first time , or as he had just left her . Then he *asked* *himself* what would become of her - if she would be married , and to whom !
Thinking that , after all , he should lose nothing , Charles *promised* *himself* to ask her in marriage as soon as occasion offered , but each time such occasion did offer the fear of not finding the right words sealed his lips .
Charles *gave* *himself* as far as to the corner of the hedge , and at last , when past it -
Emma blushed as he entered , and she gave a little forced laugh to *keep* *herself* in countenance .
Part of it was ordered at Rouen , and she made *herself* *chemises* and nightcaps after fashion-plates that she borrowed .
Then came the married pair , the relations , the friends , all following pell-mell ; the children stayed behind *amusing* *themselves* plucking the bell-flowers from oat-ears , or playing amongst themselves unseen .
To begin with , at its base there was a square of blue cardboard , representing a temple with porticoes , colonnades , and stucco statuettes all round , and in the niches constellations of gilt paper stars ; then on the second stage was a dungeon of Savoy cake , surrounded by many fortifications in candied angelica , almonds , raisins , and quarters of oranges ; and finally , on the upper platform a green field with rocks set in lakes of jam , nutshell boats , and a small Cupid *balancing* *himself* in a chocolate swing whose two uprights ended in real roses for balls at the top .
In his heart he accused old Rouault of being proud , and he joined four or five other guests in a corner , who having , through mere chance , been several times running served with the worst helps of meat , also were of opinion they had been badly used , and were whispering about their host , and with covered hints hoping he would *ruin* *himself* .
Old Rouault had them driven back in his cart , and *himself* *accompanied* them as far as Vassonville . Here he embraced his daughter for the last time , got down , and went his way .
The old servant *presented* *herself* , curtsied to her , apologised for not having dinner ready , and suggested that madame , in the meantime , should look over her house .
During the first days she *occupied* *herself* in thinking about changes in the house .
His own eyes *lost* *themselves* in these depths ; he *saw* *himself* in miniature down to the shoulders , with his handkerchief round his head and the top of his shirt open .
For him the universe did not extend beyond the circumference of her petticoat , and he *reproached* *himself* with not loving her .
Before marriage she *thought* *herself* in love ; but the happiness that should have followed this love not having come , she must , she thought , have been mistaken .
When she was thirteen , her *father* *himself* took her to town to place her in the convent .
She told stories , gave them news , went errands in the town , and on the sly lent the big girls some novel , that she always carried in the pockets of her apron , and of which the good lady *herself* *swallowed* long chapters in the intervals of her work .
She *let* *herself* glide along with Lamartine meanderings , listened to harps on lakes , to all the songs of dying swans , to the falling of the leaves , the pure virgins ascending to heaven , and the voice of the Eternal discoursing down the valleys . She wearied of it , would not confess it , continued from habit , and at last was surprised to *feel* *herself* soothed , and with no more sadness at heart than wrinkles on her brow .
And yet , in accord with theories she believed right , she wanted to *make* *herself* in love with him .
By moonlight in the garden she recited all the passionate rhymes she knew by heart , and , sighing , sang to him many melancholy adagios ; but she *found* *herself* as calm after as before , and Charles seemed no more amorous and no more moved .
When she had thus for a while struck the flint on her heart without getting a spark , incapable , moreover , of understanding what she did not experience as of believing anything that did not *present* *itself* in conventional forms , she *persuaded* *herself* without difficulty that Charles 's passion was nothing very exorbitant .
She *asked* *herself* if by some other chance combination it would have not been possible to meet another man ; and she tried to imagine what would have been these unrealised events , this different life , this unknown husband .
A fear took hold of her ; she called Djali , and hurriedly returned to Tostes by the high road , *threw* *herself* into an armchair , and for the rest of the evening did not speak .
The Marquis opened the drawing room door ; one of the ladies ( the *Marchioness* *herself* ) came to meet Emma .
Emma , on entering , felt *herself* *wrapped* round by the warm air , a blending of the perfume of flowers and of the fine linen , of the fumes of the viands , and the odour of the truffles . The silver dish covers reflected the lighted wax candles in the candelabra , the cut crystal covered with light steam reflected from one to the other pale rays ; bouquets were placed in a row the whole length of the table ; and in the large-bordered plates each napkin , arranged after the fashion of a bishop 's mitre , held between its two gaping folds a small oval shaped roll . The red claws of lobsters hung over the dishes ; rich fruit in open baskets was piled up on moss ; there were quails in their plumage ; smoke was rising ; and in silk stockings , knee-breeches , white cravat , and frilled shirt , the steward , grave as a judge , offering ready carved dishes between the shoulders of the guests , with a touch of the spoon gave you the piece chosen . On the large stove of porcelain inlaid with copper baguettes the statue of a woman , draped to the chin , gazed motionless on the room full of life .
She went downstairs *restraining* *herself* from running .
A few men ( some fifteen or so ) , of twenty-five to forty , scattered here and there among the dancers or talking at the doorways , *distinguished* *themselves* from the crowd by a certain air of breeding , whatever their differences in age , dress , or face .
She saw the farm again , the muddy pond , her father in a blouse under the apple trees , and she *saw* *herself* again as formerly , skimming with her finger the cream off the milk-pans in the dairy .
Charles *dragged* *himself* up by the balusters .
And she tried to *keep* *herself* awake in order to prolong the illusion of this luxurious life that she would soon have to give up .
`` Leave the room ! '' said Emma . " You are *forgetting* *yourself* .
Then they *warmed* *themselves* in the kitchen while their room was being made ready .
`` You 'll *make* *yourself* ill , '' she said scornfully .
Emma perceived only two or three that hid from her all the rest , and in *themselves* *represented* all humanity .
She had *bought* *herself* a blotting book , writing case , pen-holder , and envelopes , although she had no one to write to ; she dusted her what-not , looked at herself in the glass , picked up a book , and then , dreaming between the lines , let it drop on her knees .
But she was angered with shame ; she felt a wild desire to strike him ; she went to open the window in the passage and breathed in the fresh air to *calm* *herself* .
Since she could never , in a velvet gown with short sleeves , striking with her light fingers the ivory keys of an Erard at a concert , feel the murmur of ecstasy envelop her like a breeze , it was not worth while *boring* *herself* with practicing .
Charles was a slow eater ; she played with a few nuts , or , leaning on her elbow , *amused* *herself* with drawing lines along the oilcloth table cover with the point of her knife .
Towards the end of February old Rouault , in memory of his cure , *himself* *brought* his son-in-law a superb turkey , and stayed three days at Tostes .
Moreover she no longer concealed her contempt for anything or anybody , and at times she *set* *herself* to express singular opinions , finding fault with that which others approved , and approving things perverse and immoral , all of which made her husband open his eyes widely .
Yonville-l 'Abbaye ( so called from an old Capuchin abbey of which not even the ruins remain ) is a market-town twenty-four miles from Rouen , between the Abbeville and Beauvais roads , at the foot of a valley watered by the Rieule , a little river that runs into the Andelle after turning three water-mills near its mouth , where there are a few trout that the lads *amuse* *themselves* by fishing for on Sundays .
Clever at all games of cards , a good hunter , and writing a fine hand , he had at home a lathe , and *amused* *himself* by turning napkin rings , with which he filled up his house , with the jealousy of an artist and the egotism of a bourgeois .
And I ca n't admit of an old boy of a God who takes walks in his garden with a cane in his hand , who lodges his friends in the belly of whales , dies uttering a cry , and rises again at the end of three days ; things absurd in themselves , and completely opposed , moreover , to all physical laws , which prove to us , by the way , that priests have always wallowed in turpid ignorance , in which they would *fain* *engulf* the people with them . "
He ceased , looking round for an audience , for in his bubbling over the chemist had for a moment *fancied* *himself* in the midst of the town council .
Homais *introduced* *himself* ; he offered his homages to madame and his respects to monsieur ; said he was charmed to have been able to render them some slight service , and added with a cordial air that he had ventured to *invite* *himself* , his wife being away .
`` But , '' Leon went on , *addressing* *himself* to Madame Bovary , `` nothing , it seems to me , is more pleasant - when one can , '' he added .
`` Moreover , '' said the druggist , `` the practice of medicine is not very hard work in our part of the world , for the state of our roads allows us the use of gigs , and generally , as the farmers are prosperous , they pay pretty well . We have , medically speaking , besides the ordinary cases of enteritis , bronchitis , bilious affections , etc . , now and then a few intermittent fevers at harvest-time ; but on the whole , little of a serious nature , nothing special to note , unless it be a great deal of scrofula , due , no doubt , to the deplorable hygienic conditions of our peasant dwellings . Ah ! you will find many prejudices to combat , Monsieur Bovary , much obstinacy of routine , with which all the efforts of your science will daily come into collision ; for people still have recourse to novenas , to relics , to the priest , rather than come straight to the doctor or the chemist . The climate , however , is not , truth to tell , bad , and we even have a few nonagenarians in our parish . The thermometer ( I have made some observations ) falls in winter to 4 degrees Centigrade at the outside , which gives us 24 degrees Reaumur as the maximum , or otherwise 54 degrees Fahrenheit ( English scale ) , not more . And , as a matter of fact , we are sheltered from the north winds by the forest of Argueil on the one side , from the west winds by the St. Jean range on the other ; and this heat , moreover , which , on account of the aqueous vapours given off by the river and the considerable number of cattle in the fields , which , as you know , exhale much ammonia , that is to say , nitrogen , hydrogen and oxygen ( no , nitrogen and hydrogen alone ) , and which sucking up into itself the humus from the ground , mixing together all those different emanations , unites them into a stack , so to say , and combining with the electricity diffused through the atmosphere , when there is any , might in the long run , as in tropical countries , engender insalubrious miasmata - this heat , I say , finds itself perfectly tempered on the side whence it comes , or rather whence it should come - that is to say , the southern side - by the south-eastern winds , which , having *cooled* *themselves* passing over the Seine , reach us sometimes all at once like breezes from Russia . ''
`` As I had the honour of putting it to your husband , '' said the chemist , " with regard to this poor Yanoda who has run away , you will *find* *yourself* , thanks to his extravagance , in the possession of one of the most comfortable houses of Yonville .
Motionless we traverse countries we fancy we see , and your thought , blending with the fiction , playing with the details , follows the outline of the adventures . It mingles with the characters , and it seems as if it were *yourself* *palpitating* beneath their costumes . "
She did not believe that things could *present* *themselves* in the same way in different places , and since the portion of her life lived had been bad , no doubt that which remained to be lived would be better .
He gave Madame Bovary information as to the trades-people , sent expressly for his own cider merchant , tasted the *drink* *himself* , and saw that the casks were properly placed in the cellar ; he explained how to set about getting in a supply of butter cheap , and made an arrangement with Lestiboudois , the sacristan , who , besides his sacerdotal and funeral functions , looked after the principal gardens at Yonville by the hour or the year , according to the taste of the customers .
Then for diversion he *employed* *himself* at home as a workman ; he even tried to do up the attic with some paint which had been left behind by the painters .
It was another bond of the flesh *establishing* *itself* , and , as it were , a continued sentiment of a more complex union .
Thus she did not *amuse* *herself* with those preparations that stimulate the tenderness of mothers , and so her affection was from the very outset , perhaps , to some extent attenuated .
Whilst she was getting well she *occupied* *herself* much in seeking a name for her daughter .
That same evening this was known in Yonville , and Madame Tuvache , the mayor 's wife , declared in the presence of her servant that `` Madame Bovary was *compromising* *herself* . ''
She took it up in the wrapping that enveloped it and began singing softly as she *rocked* *herself* to and fro .
It flowed noiselessly , swift , and cold to the eye ; long , thin grasses huddled together in it as the current drove them , and *spread* *themselves* upon the limpid water like streaming hair ; sometimes at the tip of the reeds or on the leaf of a water-lily an insect with fine legs crawled or rested .
Yet their eyes were full of more serious speech , and while they *forced* *themselves* to find trivial phrases , they felt the same languor stealing over them both .
From her turned-up hair a dark colour fell over her back , and growing gradually paler , lost *itself* *little* by little in the shade .
Then the three hundred finished , they both *stretched* *themselves* out in front of the fire , and were soon asleep .
Monsieur Bovary , little given to jealousy , did not *trouble* *himself* about it .
He *tortured* *himself* to find out how he could make his declaration to her , and always halting between the fear of displeasing her and the shame of being such a coward , he wept with discouragement and desire .
As to Emma , she did not *ask* *herself* whether she loved .
`` Wretched boy ! '' suddenly cried the chemist . And he ran to his son , who had just *precipitated* *himself* into a heap of lime in order to whiten his boots .
In the evening Madame Bovary did not go to her neighbour 's , and when Charles had left and she *felt* *herself* alone , the comparison re-began with the clearness of a sensation almost actual , and with that lengthening of perspective which memory gives to things . Looking from her bed at the clean fire that was burning , she still saw , as she had down there , Leon standing up with one hand behind his cane , and with the other holding Athalie , who was quietly sucking a piece of ice . She thought him charming ; she could not *tear* *herself* away from him ; she recalled his other attitudes on other days , the words he had spoken , the sound of his voice , his whole person ; and she repeated , pouting out her lips as if for a kiss -
`` Yes , charming ! charming ! Is he not in love ? '' she *asked* *herself* ; " but with whom ?
Polite to obsequiousness , he always *held* *himself* with his back bent in the position of one who bows or who invites .
`` How have I displeased her ? '' he *asked* *himself* .
She was so sad and so calm , at once so gentle and so reserved , that near her one *felt* *oneself* seized by an icy charm , as we shudder in churches at the perfume of the flowers mingling with the cold of the marble .
She *concerned* *herself* about his comings and goings ; she watched his face ; she invented quite a history to find an excuse for going to his room .
Then the lusts of the flesh , the longing for money , and the melancholy of passion all *blended* *themselves* into one suffering , and instead of turning her thoughts from it , she clave to it the more , *urging* *herself* to pain , and seeking everywhere occasion for it . She was irritated by an ill-served dish or by a half-open door ; bewailed the velvets she had not , the happiness she had missed , her too exalted dreams , her narrow home .
She would have liked Charles to beat her , that she might have a better right to hate him , to *revenge* *herself* upon him .
With this repeated tinkling the thoughts of the young woman *lost* *themselves* in old memories of her youth and school-days .
At mass on Sundays , when she looked up , she saw the gentle face of the Virgin amid the blue smoke of the rising incense . Then she was moved ; she *felt* *herself* weak and quite deserted , like the down of a bird whirled by the tempest , and it was unconsciously that she went towards the church , included to no matter what devotions , so that her soul was absorbed and all existence lost in it .
`` Where is the cure ? '' asked Madame Bovary of one of the lads , who was *amusing* *himself* by shaking a swivel in a hole too large for it .
Then , *bethinking* *himself* , " But you were asking me something ?
One can not lead them too soon into the path of the Lord , as , moreover , he has *himself* *recommended* us to do by the mouth of his Divine Son .
She went up the steps of the staircase holding on to the banisters , and when she was in her room *threw* *herself* into an arm-chair .
The furniture in its place seemed to have become more immobile , and to *lose* *itself* in the shadow as in an ocean of darkness .
Madame Bovary sprang to lift her up , broke the bell-rope , called for the servant with all her might , and she was just going to *curse* *herself* when Charles appeared .
`` Look , dear ! '' said Emma , in a calm voice , `` the little one fell down while she was playing , and has *hurt* *herself* . ''
`` I assure you it 's nothing . '' he said , kissing her on the forehead . `` Do n't worry , my poor darling ; you will *make* *yourself* ill . ''
Although he had not seemed much moved , Homais , nevertheless , had *exerted* *himself* to buoy him up , to `` keep up his spirits . ''
`` Can he suspect anything ? '' Leon *asked* *himself* .
At last , Charles , having shut the door , asked him to *see* *himself* what would be the price at Rouen of a fine daguerreotypes .
All the same , his companion seemed very strange to him , for Leon often *threw* *himself* back in his chair , and stretching out his arms . Complained vaguely of life .
An individual *presents* *himself* , well dressed , even wearing an order , and whom one would take for a diplomatist .
He approaches you , he *insinuates* *himself* ; offers you a pinch of snuff , or picks up your hat .
And she *cursed* *herself* for not having loved Leon .
The wish took possession of her to run after and rejoin him , *throw* *herself* into his arms and say to him , `` It is I ; I am yours . ''
The flames , however , subsided , either because the supply had *exhausted* *itself* , or because it had been piled up too much .
In the supineness of her conscience she even took her repugnance towards her husband for aspirations towards her lover , the burning of hate for the warmth of tenderness ; but as the tempest still raged , and as passion *burnt* *itself* down to the very cinders , and no help came , no sun rose , there was night on all sides , and she was lost in the terrible cold that pierced her .
She *thought* *herself* now far more unhappy ; for she had the experience of grief , with the certainty that it would not end .
" She wants to be forced to *occupy* *herself* with some manual work .
She was , when she passed through Rouen , to *go* *herself* to the lending-library and represent that Emma had discontinued her subscription .
The window in the provinces replaces the theatre and the promenade , she was *amusing* *herself* with watching the crowd of boors when she saw a gentleman in a green velvet coat .
It was not from territorial vanity that the new arrival added `` of La Huchette '' to his name , but to *make* *himself* the better known .
La Huchette , in fact , was an estate near Yonville , where he had just bought the chateau and two farms that he *cultivated* *himself* , without , however , troubling very much about them .
Here 's a fine fitness for practising pharmacy later on ; for under serious circumstances you may be called before the tribunals in order to enlighten the minds of the magistrates , and you would have to keep your head then , to reason , *show* *yourself* a man , or else pass for an imbecile . "
Monsieur Boulanger , however , dismissed his servant , advising him to *calm* *himself* , since his fancy was over .
He *asked* *himself* -
I 'll send them venison , poultry ; I 'll *have* *myself* bled , if need be .
`` What 's the meaning of that ? '' he *asked* *himself* .
`` Why , '' he went on , `` *allow* *oneself* to be intruded upon by others ? And as to-day I have the happiness of being with you - ''
I seem so , because in the midst of the world I know how to wear the mask of a scoffer upon my face ; and yet , how many a time at the sight of a cemetery by moonlight have I not *asked* *myself* whether it were not better to join those sleeping there ! "
Monsieur Tuvache answered them with compliments ; the other *confessed* *himself* nervous ; and they remained thus , face to face , their foreheads almost touching , with the members of the jury all round , the municipal council , the notable personages , the National Guard and the crowd .
`` Oh , you are *slandering* *yourself* , '' said Emma .
They need by turns to dream and to act , the purest passions and the most turbulent joys , and thus they *fling* *themselves* into all sorts of fantasies , of follies . "
And , gentlemen , I do not mean that superficial intelligence , vain ornament of idle minds , but rather that profound and balanced intelligence that *applies* *itself* above all else to useful objects , thus contributing to the good of all , to the common amelioration and to the support of the state , born of respect for law and the practice of duty - "
For how should we *clothe* *ourselves* , how nourish ourselves , without the agriculturist ?
His was not perhaps so florid as that of the councillor , but it *recommended* *itself* by a more direct style , that is to say , by more special knowledge and more elevated considerations .
Monsieur Derozerays *set* *himself* this problem .
She did not *present* *herself* , and one could hear voices whispering -
It was the first time that she *found* *herself* in the midst of so large a company , and inwardly scared by the flags , the drums , the gentlemen in frock-coats , and the order of the councillor , she stood motionless , not knowing whether to advance or run away , nor why the crowd was pushing her and the jury were smiling at her .
Each one *stuffed* *himself* on his own account .
`` Perhaps you would not do ill , '' Homais said to him , `` to send one of your men , or to *go* *yourself* - ''
Then touching on the entry of the councillor , he did not forget `` the martial air of our militia ; '' nor `` our most merry village maidens ; '' nor the `` bald-headed old men like patriarchs who were there , and of whom some , the remnants of our phalanxes , still felt their hearts beat at the manly sound of the drums . '' He *cited* *himself* among the first of the members of the jury , and he even called attention in a note to the fact that Monsieur Homais , chemist , had sent a memoir on cider to the agricultural society .
One would have called it a veritable kaleidoscope , a real operatic scene ; and for a moment our little locality might have *thought* *itself* transported into the midst of a dream of the ' Thousand and One Nights . '
Of this the other took advantage to *pull* *himself* together a little .
Her figure slightly bent , her hand well up , and her right arm stretched out , she *gave* *herself* up to the cadence of the movement that rocked her in her saddle .
She feebly tried to *disengage* *herself* .
She threw back her white neck , swelling with a sigh , and faltering , in tears , with a long shudder and hiding her face , she *gave* *herself* up to him -
And as soon as she had got rid of Charles she went and *shut* *herself* up in her room .
But when she *saw* *herself* in the glass she wondered at her face .
She *became* *herself* , as it were , an actual part of these imaginings , and realised the love-dream of her youth as she *saw* *herself* in this type of amorous women whom she had so envied .
This idea made her pant with desire , and she soon *found* *herself* in the middle of the field , walking with rapid steps , without looking behind her .
At last he declared with a serious air that her visits were becoming imprudent - that she was *compromising* *herself* .
The tax-collector was thus trying to hide the fright he had had , for a prefectorial order having prohibited duckhunting except in boats , Monsieur Binet , despite his respect for the laws , was infringing them , and so he every moment expected to see the rural guard turn up . But this anxiety whetted his pleasure , and , all alone in his tub , he *congratulated* *himself* on his luck and on his cuteness . At sight of Emma he seemed relieved from a great weight , and at once entered upon a conversation .
*Warm* *yourself* at the stove in the meantime .
Binet explained that he wanted a corrosive to *make* *himself* some copperwater with which to remove rust from his hunting things .
`` Why , to *defend* *yourself* , '' replied Emma .
The humiliation of *feeling* *herself* weak was turning to rancour , tempered by their voluptuous pleasures .
When he did come , she *showed* *herself* cold and almost contemptuous .
She even *asked* *herself* why she detested Charles ; if it had not been better to have been able to love him ?
Charles , urged by the druggist and by her , *allowed* *himself* to be persuaded .
She *threw* *herself* on his neck ; they sat down to table ; he ate much , and at dessert he even wanted to take a cup of coffee , a luxury he only *permitted* *himself* on Sundays when there was company .
They talked about their future fortune , of the improvements to be made in their house ; he saw people 's estimation of him growing , his comforts increasing , his wife always loving him ; and she was happy to *refresh* *herself* with a new sentiment , healthier , better , to feel at last some tenderness for this poor fellow who adored her .
Thus on Tuesday our little town of Yonville *found* *itself* the scene of a surgical operation which is at the same time an act of loftiest philanthropy .
He appeared *himself* *breathless* , red , anxious , and asking everyone who was going up the stairs -
With many precautions , in order not to disturb the position of the limb , the box was removed , and an awful sight *presented* *itself* .
Hippolyte began to *worry* *himself* , and Mere Lefrancois , had him installed in the little room near the kitchen , so that he might at least have some distraction .
You *coddle* *yourself* like a king !
Bovary *himself* *turned* sick at it .
And the doctor left , always recommending him to *diet* *himself* .
He began by pitying his sufferings , declaring at the same time that he ought to rejoice at them since it was the will of the Lord , and take advantage of the occasion to *reconcile* *himself* to Heaven .
He came in his gig , which he *drove* *himself* .
Homais *presented* *himself* .
He *saw* *himself* dishonoured , ruined , lost ; and his imagination , assailed by a world of hypotheses , tossed amongst them like an empty cask borne by the sea and floating upon the waves .
How was it that she - she , who was so intelligent - could have *allowed* *herself* to be deceived again ? and through what deplorable madness had she thus ruined her life by continual sacrifices ? She recalled all her instincts of luxury , all the privations of her soul , the sordidness of marriage , of the household , her dream sinking into the mire like wounded swallows ; all that she had longed for , all that she had *denied* *herself* , all that she might have had ! And for what ? for what ?
" Be calm ; *compose* *yourself* .
Never had Charles seemed to her so disagreeable , to have such stodgy fingers , such vulgar ways , to be so dull as when they *found* *themselves* together after her meeting with Rodolphe .
She *loaded* *herself* with bracelets , rings , and necklaces .
Emma had a number in her cupboard that she squandered one after the other , without Charles *allowing* *himself* the slightest observation .
He chatted with her about the new goods from Paris , about a thousand feminine trifles , *made* *himself* very obliging , and never asked for his money .
I *ask* *myself* , Where is he ?
First , Charles had not attended to her advice about the forbidding of novels ; then the `` ways of the house '' annoyed her ; she *allowed* *herself* to make some remarks , and there were quarrels , especially one on account of Felicite .
Then , having gone up again to her room , she threw *herself* *flat* on her bed and cried there like a child , her face buried in the pillow .
She *threw* *herself* into his arms .
A love like ours ought to *show* *itself* in the face of heaven .
And she *threw* *herself* upon his mouth , as if to seize there the unexpected consent if breathed forth in a kiss .
Emma , in fact , was *showing* *herself* more docile , and even carried her deference so far as to ask for a recipe for pickling gherkins .
He pictured her to *himself* *working* in the evening by their side beneath the light of the lamp ; she would embroider him slippers ; she would look after the house ; she would fill all the home with her charm and her gaiety .
`` And , '' said Madame Bovary , taking her watch from her belt , `` take this ; you can *pay* *yourself* out of it . ''
`` For , after all , '' he exclaimed , gesticulating , `` I ca n't *exile* *myself* - have a child on my hands . ''
He was saying these things to *give* *himself* firmness .
In fact , these women , rushing at once into his thoughts , cramped each other and lessened , as reduced to a uniform level of love that equalised them all . So taking handfuls of the mixed-up letters , he *amused* *himself* for some moments with letting them fall in cascades from his right into his left hand . At last , bored and weary , Rodolphe took back the box to the cupboard , saying to himself , `` What a lot of rubbish ! '' Which summed up his opinion ; for pleasures , like schoolboys in a school courtyard , had so trampled upon his heart that no green thing grew there , and that which passed through it , more heedless than children , did not even , like them , leave a name carved upon the wall .
For I am going to *punish* *myself* by exile for all the ill I have done you .
Then she tried to *calm* *herself* ; she recalled the letter ; she must finish it ; she did not dare to . And where ?
The slates threw straight down a heavy heat that gripped her temples , stifled her ; she *dragged* *herself* to the closed garret-window .
The blue of the heavens suffused her , the air was whirling in her hollow head ; she had but to yield , to *let* *herself* be taken ; and the humming of the lathe never ceased , like an angry voice calling her .
Then she unfolded her napkin as if to examine the darns , and she really thought of *applying* *herself* to this work , counting the threads in the linen .
He *absents* *himself* like that from time to time for a change , and , ma foi , I think he 's right , when one has a fortune and is a bachelor .
`` Speak to us , '' said Charles ; " *collect* *yourself* ; it is your Charles , who loves you .
She *drew* *herself* up slowly , shading her eyes with her hand to look .
`` You will *tire* *yourself* , my darling ! '' said Bovary . And , pushing her gently to make her go into the arbour , `` Sit down on this seat ; you 'll be comfortable . ''
Charles several times *asked* *himself* by what means he should next year be able to pay back so much money .
He *reproached* *himself* with forgetting Emma , as if , all his thoughts belonging to this woman , it was robbing her of something not to be constantly thinking of her .
One day , when at the height of her illness , she had thought *herself* *dying* , and had asked for the communion ; and , while they were making the preparations in her room for the sacrament , while they were turning the night table covered with syrups into an altar , and while Felicite was strewing dahlia flowers on the floor , Emma felt some power passing over her that freed her from her pains , from all perception , from all feeling .
Madame Bovary 's mind was not yet sufficiently clear to *apply* *herself* seriously to anything ; moreover , she began this reading in too much hurry .
Nevertheless , she persevered ; and when the volume slipped from her hands , she fancied *herself* *seized* with the finest Catholic melancholy that an ethereal soul could conceive .
This searching after faith , she thought , was only one merit the more , and in the pride of her devoutness Emma *compared* *herself* to those grand ladies of long ago whose glory she , had dreamed of over a portrait of La Valliere , and who , trailing with so much majesty the lace-trimmed trains of their long gowns , retired into solitudes to shed at the feet of Christ all the tears of hearts that life had wounded .
Then she *gave* *herself* up to excessive charity .
And without waiting for any answer from Felicite , who was blushing , she added , `` There ! run along ; *enjoy* *yourself* ! ''
The ecclesiastic *contented* *himself* with uttering a groan , and the chemist went on -
The druggist , whom nothing whatever kept at Yonville , but who *thought* *himself* bound not to budge from it , sighed as he saw them go .
Then *addressing* *himself* to Emma , who was wearing a blue silk gown with four flounces -
The doctor was much afraid of missing the beginning , and , without having had time to swallow a plate of soup , they *presented* *themselves* at the doors of the theatre , which were still closed .
Another appeared ; they went away , and the hunters started afresh . She felt *herself* *transported* to the reading of her youth , into the midst of Walter Scott .
She *gave* *herself* up to the lullaby of the melodies , and felt all her being vibrate as if the violin bows were drawn over her nerves . She had not eyes enough to look at the costumes , the scenery , the actors , the painted trees that shook when anyone walked , and the velvet caps , cloaks , swords - all those imaginary things that floated amid the harmony as in the atmosphere of another world .
She had *ruined* *herself* for him .
Emma dreamed of her marriage day ; she *saw* *herself* at home again amid the corn in the little path as they walked to the church .
She , on the contrary , had been joyous , without seeing the abyss into which she was *throwing* *herself* .
With him , through all the kingdoms of Europe she would have travelled from capital to capital , sharing his fatigues and his pride , picking up the flowers thrown to him , *herself* *embroidering* his costumes .
But soon *recalling* *herself* to the necessities of the situation , with an effort she shook off the torpor of her memories , and began stammering a few hurried words .
He was standing behind her , leaning with his shoulder against the wall of the box ; now and again she felt *herself* *shuddering* beneath the hot breath from his nostrils falling upon her hair .
And changing his tactics at this unexpected opportunity that *presented* *itself* to his hopes , the young man sang the praises of Lagardy in the last number .
Charles explained once more that he could not *absent* *himself* longer , but that nothing prevented Emma -
One ought not to *accustom* *oneself* to impossible pleasures when there are a thousand demands upon one . "
As they talked they explained more and more fully the motives of their sadness , *working* *themselves* up in their progressive confidence .
Often I went out ; I went away . I *dragged* *myself* along the quays , seeking distraction amid the din of the crowd without being able to banish the heaviness that weighed upon me .
He started off in praise of virtue , duty , and silent immolation , *having* *himself* an incredible longing for self-sacrifice that he could not satisfy .
`` Because I loved you so ! '' And *congratulating* *himself* at having surmounted the difficulty , Leon watched her face out of the corner of his eyes .
No doubt Emma did not *herself* *know* , quite absorbed as she was by the charm of the seduction , and the necessity of *defending* *herself* from it ; and contemplating the young man with a moved look , she gently repulsed the timid caresses that his trembling hands attempted .
The next morning , at the open window , and humming on his balcony , Leon *himself* *varnished* his pumps with several coatings .
He seemed to him to be *conducting* *himself* in a monstrous fashion , to be robbing him in a sort , and almost committing sacrilege .
It was thus the druggist called a small room under the leads , full of the utensils and the goods of his trade . He often spent long hours there alone , labelling , decanting , and doing up again ; and he looked upon it not as a simple store , but as a veritable sanctuary , whence there afterwards issued , elaborated by his hands , all sorts of pills , boluses , infusions , lotions , and potions , that would bear far and wide his celebrity . No one in the world set foot there , and he respected it so , that he swept it himself . Finally , if the pharmacy , open to all comers , was the spot where he displayed his pride , the Capharnaum was the refuge where , egoistically *concentrating* *himself* , Homais delighted in the exercise of his predilections , so that Justin 's thoughtlessness seemed to him a monstrous piece of irreverence , and , redder than the currants , he repeated -
" Presently ! Do you know to what you *exposed* *yourself* ?
Often I am *horrified* *myself* when I think of my responsibility ; for the Government persecutes us , and the absurd legislation that rules us is a veritable Damocles ' sword over our heads . "
He would have quoted Chinese or Greenlandish had he known those two languages , for he was in one of those crises in which the whole soul shows indistinctly what it contains , like the ocean , which , in the storm , *opens* *itself* from the seaweeds on its shores down to the sands of its abysses .
Then he came straight to his pupil , and , *planting* *himself* in front of him with crossed arms -
However , he was growing calmer , and was now grumbling in a paternal tone whilst he *fanned* *himself* with his skull-cap .
At any rate , not till you are *man* *yourself* and your temperament is formed . "
Seeing her so taciturn , Charles imagined her much affected , and *forced* *himself* to say nothing , not to reawaken this sorrow which moved him .
`` Did you *enjoy* *yourself* yesterday ? '' he asked .
She had *bored* *herself* so prodigiously the last two days .
The doctor , of course , would do as he pleased ; he was not to *trouble* *himself* , especially just now , when he would have a lot of worry .
Then he came again to measure it ; he came again on other pretexts , always trying to *make* *himself* agreeable , useful , `` *enfeoffing* *himself* , '' as Homais would have said , and always dropping some hint to Emma about the power of attorney .
For my own part , I think that mothers *ought* *themselves* to instruct their children .
At last , when he had eaten his soup , put on his cloak , lighted his pipe , and grasped his whip , he calmly *installed* *himself* on his seat .
A giddiness seemed to her to *detach* *itself* from this mass of existence , and her heart swelled as if the hundred and twenty thousand souls that palpitated there had all at once sent into it the vapour of the passions she fancied theirs . Her love grew in the presence of this vastness , and expanded with tumult to the vague murmurings that rose towards her .
They were so completely lost in the possession of each other that they *thought* *themselves* in their own house , and that they would live there till death , like two spouses eternally young . They said `` our room , '' `` our carpet , '' she even said `` my slippers , '' a gift of Leon 's , a whim she had had .
So he *thought* *himself* the most fortunate of men and Emma was without uneasiness , when , one evening suddenly he said -
`` If I were in your place , '' he said , `` I should *clear* *myself* of my debts , and have money left over . ''
`` It really grieves me , on my word ! to see you *depriving* *yourself* all at once of such a big sum as that . ''
Instead of sending a reply she *came* *herself* ; and when Emma wanted to know whether he had got anything out of her , `` Yes , '' he replied ; `` but she wants to see the account . ''
I should be ashamed to *coddle* *myself* as you do !
As he was turning into the street , Emma *herself* *appeared* at the other end of it .
He *threw* *himself* upon her rather than embraced her , crying -
This was a sort of permission that she *gave* *herself* , so as to get perfect freedom in her escapades .
At last she ran to his office ; and , lost in all sorts of conjectures , accusing him of indifference , and *reproaching* *herself* for her weakness , she spent the afternoon , her face pressed against the window-panes .
Homais was *enjoying* *himself* .
Then , through cowardice , through stupidity , through that indefinable feeling that drags us into the most distasteful acts , he *allowed* *himself* to be led off to Bridoux ' , whom they found in his small yard , superintending three workmen , who panted as they turned the large wheel of a machine for making seltzer-water .
This failing to keep their rendezvous seemed to her an insult , and she tried to rake up other reasons to *separate* *herself* from him .
They gradually came to talking more frequently of matters outside their love , and in the letters that Emma wrote him she spoke of flowers , verses , the moon and the stars , naive resources of a waning passion striving to *keep* *itself* alive by all external aids .
She was constantly *promising* *herself* a profound felicity on her next journey . Then she confessed to herself that she felt nothing extraordinary .
She went on tiptoe , barefooted , to see once more that the door was closed , then , pale , serious , and , without speaking , with one movement , she *threw* *herself* upon his breast with a long shudder .
`` But I was *pressed* *myself* ; the knife was at my own throat . ''
He explained everything through her old nervous illness , and *reproaching* *himself* with having taken her infirmities for faults , accused himself of egotism , and longed to go and take her in his arms .
One day she drew six small silver-gilt spoons from her bag ( they were old Roualt 's wedding present ) , begging him to pawn them at once for her , and Leon obeyed , though the proceeding annoyed him . He was afraid of *compromising* *himself* .
In fact someone had sent his mother a long anonymous letter to warn her that he was `` *ruining* *himself* with a married woman , '' and the good lady at once conjuring up the eternal bugbear of families , the vague pernicious creature , the siren , the monster , who dwells fantastically in depths of love , wrote to Lawyer Dubocage , his employer , who behaved perfectly in the affair . He kept him for three quarters of an hour trying to open his eyes , to warn him of the abyss into which he was falling . Such an intrigue would damage him later on , when he set up for himself . He implored him to break with her , and , if he would not make this sacrifice in his own interest , to do it at least for his , Dubocage 's sake .
At last Leon swore he would not see Emma again , and he *reproached* *himself* with not having kept his word , considering all the worry and lectures this woman might still draw down upon him , without reckoning the jokes made by his companions as they sat round the stove in the morning . Besides , he was soon to be head clerk ; it was time to settle down . So he gave up his flute , exalted sentiments , and poetry ; for every bourgeois in the flush of his youth , were it but for a day , a moment , has *believed* *himself* capable of immense passions , of lofty enterprises . The most mediocre libertine has dreamed of sultanas ; every notary bears within him the debris of a poet .
On Mid-Lent she did not return to Yonville , but in the evening went to a masked ball . She wore velvet breeches , red stockings , a club wig , and three-cornered hat cocked on one side . She danced all night to the wild tones of the trombones ; people gathered round her , and in the morning she *found* *herself* on the steps of the theatre together with five or six masks , debardeuses * and sailors , Leon 's comrades , who were talking about having supper .
Then , reaching the `` Croix-Rouge , '' she *threw* *herself* on the bed in her little room on the second floor , where there were pictures of the `` Tour de Nesle . ''
She *presented* *herself* at his place with an offhand air .
She was stoical the next day when Maitre Hareng , the bailiff , with two assistants , *presented* *himself* at her house to draw up the inventory for the distraint .
An infernal boldness looked out from her burning eyes , and their lids drew close together with a lascivious and encouraging look , so that the young man felt *himself* *growing* weak beneath the mute will of this woman who was urging him to a crime .
She was so overwhelmed , so sad , that she had to lean against a wall to *keep* *herself* from falling .
Madame Homais was very fond of these small , heavy turban-shaped loaves , that are eaten in Lent with salt butter ; a last vestige of Gothic food that goes back , perhaps , to the time of the Crusades , and with which the robust Normans *gorged* *themselves* of yore , fancying they saw on the table , in the light of the yellow torches , between tankards of hippocras and huge boars ' heads , the heads of Saracens to be devoured .
Instead of getting drunk at the public , you 'd do better to *die* *yourself* . "
But the druggist said that he would *cure* *himself* with an antiphlogistic pomade of his own composition , and he gave his address - `` Monsieur Homais , near the market , pretty well known . ''
They might , either in the turf-peats of Grumesnil or building-ground at Havre , almost without risk , have ventured on some excellent speculations ; and he let her *consume* *herself* with rage at the thought of the fabulous sums that she would certainly have made .
He *dragged* *himself* towards her on his knees , regardless of his dressing-gown .
`` What a wretch ! what a scoundrel ! what an infamy ! '' she said to herself , as she fled with nervous steps beneath the aspens of the path . The disappointment of her failure increased the indignation of her outraged modesty ; it seemed to her that Providence pursued her implacably , and , *strengthening* *herself* in her pride , she had never felt so much esteem for herself nor so much contempt for others . A spirit of warfare transformed her . She would have liked to strike all men , to spit in their faces , to crush them , and she walked rapidly straight on , pale , quivering , maddened , searching the empty horizon with tear-dimmed eyes , and as it were rejoicing in the hate that was choking her .
She hurried off to tell Madame Caron , and the two ladies went up to the attic , and , hidden by some linen spread across props , *stationed* *themselves* comfortably for overlooking the whole of Binet 's room .
And she already *saw* *herself* at Lheureux 's spreading out her three bank-notes on his bureau .
So she set out towards La Huchette , not seeing that she was hastening to *offer* *herself* to that which but a while ago had so angered her , not in the least conscious of her prostitution .
She *asked* *herself* as she walked along , " What am I going to say ?
She collected her thoughts for one moment , and , *strengthening* *herself* by the feeling of present necessity , went in .
Then he began a long explanation of his conduct , *excusing* *himself* in vague terms , in default of being able to invent better .
She was betraying , *ruining* *herself* .
For you *love* *yourself* ; you live well .
`` I have n't got them , '' replied Rodolphe , with that perfect calm with which resigned rage *covers* *itself* as with a shield .
Madness was coming upon her ; she grew afraid , and managed to *recover* *herself* , in a confused way , it is true , for she did not in the least remember the cause of the terrible condition she was in , that is to say , the question of money .
She was *studying* *herself* curiously , to see if she were not suffering .
Her shoulders were shaken by a strong shuddering , and she was growing paler than the sheets in which her clenched fingers *buried* *themselves* .
He *threw* *himself* on his knees by her bed .
`` Bring me the child , '' she said , *raising* *herself* on her elbow .
At last , when Canivet came in , he *threw* *himself* into his arms .
He sent quickly to the `` Lion d 'Or '' for some pigeons ; to the butcher 's for all the cutlets that were to be had ; to Tuvache for cream ; and to Lestiboudois for eggs ; and the druggist *himself* *aided* in the preparations , while Madame Homais was saying as she pulled together the strings of her jacket -
`` But how did she *poison* *herself* ? ''
But suddenly *controlling* *himself* -
" I have even read that various persons have *found* *themselves* under toxicological symptoms , and , as it were , thunderstricken by black-pudding that had been subjected to a too vehement fumigation .
At last the three horses started ; and it was the general opinion that he had not *shown* *himself* at all obliging .
Emma , her chin sunken upon her breast , had her eyes inordinately wide open , and her poor hands wandered over the sheets with that hideous and soft movement of the dying , that seems as if they wanted already to *cover* *themselves* with the shroud .
Her chest soon began panting rapidly ; the whole of her tongue protruded from her mouth ; her eyes , as they rolled , grew paler , like the two globes of a lamp that is going out , so that one might have thought her already dead but for the fearful labouring of her ribs , shaken by violent breathing , as if the soul were struggling to *free* *itself* .
Emma *raised* *herself* like a galvanised corpse , her hair undone , her eyes fixed , staring .
But still , when he saw that she did not move , Charles *threw* *himself* upon her , crying -
`` *Restrain* *yourself* ! ''
Weaker than a child , Charles *let* *himself* be led downstairs into the sitting-room , and Monsieur Homais soon went home .
On the Place he was accosted by the blind man , who , having *dragged* *himself* as far as Yonville , in the hope of getting the antiphlogistic pomade , was asking every passer-by where the druggist lived .
`` Now , '' said the chemist , `` you *ought* *yourself* to fix the hour for the ceremony . ''
Homais , to *keep* *himself* in countenance , took up a water-bottle on the whatnot to water the geraniums .
He *shut* *himself* up in his consulting-room , took a pen , and after sobbing for some time , wrote -
He *threw* *himself* upon it and fell asleep .
He stood opposite her , the better to see her , and he *lost* *himself* in a contemplation so deep that it was no longer painful .
At last , *stiffening* *himself* against emotion , Homais gave two or three great cuts at random that left white patches amongst that beautiful black hair .
He was dizzy ; he heard voices round about him ; he *felt* *himself* going mad .
At Quincampoix , to *give* *himself* heart , he drank three cups of coffee one after the other .
The poor fellow tried to *show* *himself* brave , and repeated several times .
Yet he tried to *stir* *himself* to a feeling of devotion , to *throw* *himself* into the hope of a future life in which he should see her again .
At times he thought he felt nothing more , and he enjoyed this lull in his pain , whilst at the same time he *reproached* *himself* for being a wretch .
They *ranged* *themselves* all round ; and while the priest spoke , the red soil thrown up at the sides kept noiselessly slipping down at the corners .
He sent her kisses ; he *dragged* *himself* towards the grave , to engulf himself with her .
Rodolphe , who , to *distract* *himself* , had been rambling about the wood all day , was sleeping quietly in his chateau , and Leon , down yonder , always slept .
Money troubles soon began again , Monsieur Lheureux urging on anew his friend Vincart , and Charles *pledged* *himself* for exorbitant sums ; for he would never consent to let the smallest of the things that had belonged to HER be sold .
Felicite now wore Madame Bovary 's gowns ; not all , for he had kept some of them , and he went to look at them in her dressing-room , *locking* *himself* up there ; she was about her height , and often Charles , seeing her from behind , was seized with an illusion , and cried out -
The blind man , whom he had not been able to cure with the pomade , had gone back to the hill of Bois-Guillaume , where he told the travellers of the vain attempt of the druggist , to such an extent , that Homais when he went to town *hid* *himself* behind the curtains of the `` Hirondelle '' to avoid meeting him .
He *busied* *himself* with great questions : the social problem , moralisation of the poorer classes , pisciculture , caoutchouc , railways , etc . He even began to blush at being a bourgeois .
`` In short ! '' he cried , making a pirouette , `` if it were only for *distinguishing* *myself* at fires ! ''
He *sold* *himself* - in a word , *prostituted* *himself* .
Then they said `` he *shut* *himself* up to drink . ''
He *questioned* *himself* ; he sought to divine who could have been that soul in torment which had not been willing to quit this world without leaving this stigma of crime or unhappiness upon the brow of the ancient church .
Thousands of good , calm , bourgeois faces thronged the windows , the doors , the dormer windows , the roofs , gazing at the palace , gazing at the populace , and asking nothing more ; for many Parisians *content* *themselves* with the spectacle of the spectators , and a wall behind which something is going on becomes at once , for us , a very curious thing indeed .
The two extremities of this gigantic parallelogram were occupied , the one by the famous marble table , so long , so broad , and so thick that , as the ancient land rolls   in a style that would have given Gargantua an appetite   say , `` such a slice of marble as was never beheld in the world '' ; the other by the chapel where Louis XI. *had* *himself* sculptured on his knees before the Virgin , and whither he caused to be brought , without heeding the two gaps thus made in the row of royal statues , the statues of Charlemagne and of Saint Louis , two saints whom he supposed to be great in favor in heaven , as kings of France .
Among the rest there was a group of those merry imps , who , after smashing the glass in a window , had *seated* *themselves* hardily on the entablature , and from that point despatched their gaze and their railleries both within and without , upon the throng in the hall , and the throng upon the Place .
Then a great hurly  burly ensued ; a vast movement of feet , hands , and heads ; a general outbreak of coughs and handkerchiefs ; each one *arranged* *himself* , assumed his post , *raised* *himself* up , and *grouped* *himself* .
The crowd *hurled* *itself* towards them , and they already beheld the frail wooden railing , which separated them from it , giving way and bending before the pressure of the throng .
The author of the `` Cid '' could not have said `` Pierre Corneille '' with more pride . Our readers have been able to observe , that a certain amount of time must have already elapsed from the moment when Jupiter had retired beneath the tapestry to the instant when the author of the new morality had thus abruptly *revealed* *himself* to the innocent admiration of Gisquette and Linarde .
The music of high and low instruments immediately became audible from the interior of the stage ; the tapestry was raised ; four personages , in motley attire and painted faces , emerged from it , climbed the steep ladder of the theatre , and , arrived upon the upper platform , *arranged* *themselves* in a line before the public , whom they saluted with profound reverences ; then the symphony ceased .
A tattered mendicant , who could not collect any coins , lost as he was in the midst of the crowd , and who had not probably found sufficient indemnity in the pockets of his neighbors , had hit upon the idea of *perching* *himself* upon some conspicuous point , in order to attract looks and alms .
He had , accordingly , *hoisted* *himself* , during the first verses of the prologue , with the aid of the pillars of the reserve gallery , to the cornice which ran round the balustrade at its lower edge ; and there he had *seated* *himself* , soliciting the attention and the pity of the multitude , with his rags and a hideous sore which covered his right arm .
On recovering from his first stupefaction , he *bestirred* *himself* to shout , to the four personages on the stage , `` Go on ! What the devil !   go on ! ''   without even deigning to cast a glance of disdain upon the two interrupters .
A true eclectic , as it would be expressed nowadays , Gringoire was one of those firm and lofty , moderate and calm spirits , which always know how to *bear* *themselves* amid all circumstances ( ~ stare in dimidio rerum ~ ) , and who are full of reason and of liberal philosophy , while still setting store by cardinals .
Nevertheless , he was a fine man ; he led a joyous cardinal 's life , liked to *enliven* *himself* with the royal vintage of Challuau , did not hate Richarde la Garmoise and Thomasse la Saillarde , bestowed alms on pretty girls rather than on old women ,   and for all these reasons was very agreeable to the populace of Paris .
So he turned toward the door , and with the best grace in the world ( so well had he *trained* *himself* to it ) , when the usher announced , in a sonorous voice , `` Messieurs the Envoys of Monsieur the Duke of Austria . '' It is useless to add that the whole hall did the same .
While the pensioner of Ghent and his eminence were exchanging very low bows and a few words in voices still lower , a man of lofty stature , with a large face and broad shoulders , *presented* *himself* , in order to enter abreast with Guillaume Rym ; one would have pronounced him a bull  dog by the side of a fox .
The arrival of the illustrious guests had by no means caused him to relax his hold , and , while the prelates and ambassadors were *packing* *themselves* into the stalls   like genuine Flemish herrings   he *settled* *himself* at his ease , and boldly crossed his legs on the architrave .
Now , chance ordained that the master hosier of Ghent , with whom the people were already in lively sympathy , and upon whom all eyes were riveted   should come and *seat* *himself* in the front row of the gallery , directly above the mendicant ; and people were not a little amazed to see the Flemish ambassador , on concluding his inspection of the knave thus placed beneath his eyes , bestow a friendly tap on that ragged shoulder .
This semi  approbation sufficed for Gringoire , and , conducting his own affairs , he began to shout , *confounding* *himself* with the crowd as much as possible : `` Begin the mystery again ! begin again ! ''
But Gringoire had *multiplied* *himself* , and only shouted the more vigorously : `` Begin again ! begin again ! ''
Both parties were forced to *resign* *themselves* .
The four personages of the prologue were *bewailing* *themselves* in their mortal embarrassment , when Venus in person , ( ~ vera incessa patuit dea ~ ) *presented* *herself* to them , clad in a fine robe bearing the heraldic device of the ship of the city of Paris .
She had *come* *herself* to claim the dolphin promised to the most beautiful .
He had *hardened* *himself* against adversity .    `` Continue ! '' he had said for the third time , to his comedians , speaking machines ; then as he was marching with great strides in front of the marble table , a fancy seized him to go and appear in his turn at the aperture of the chapel , were it only for the pleasure of making a grimace at that ungrateful populace .   `` But no , that would not be worthy of us ; no , vengeance ! let us combat until the end , '' he repeated to himself ; " the power of poetry over people is great ; I will bring them back .
Gringoire was forced to *content* *himself* with this eulogy ; for a thunder of applause , mingled with a prodigious acclamation , cut their conversation short .
Master Coppenole *himself* *applauded* , and Clopin Trouillefou , who had been among the competitors ( and God knows what intensity of ugliness his visage could attain ) , confessed *himself* *conquered* : We will do the same .
Quasimodo *contented* *himself* with taking him by the girdle , and hurling him ten paces off amid the crowd ; all without uttering a word .
`` What a devil of a man ! '' said Robin Poussepain still all bruised with his fall . " He *shows* *himself* ; he 's a hunchback .
Then they made him *seat* *himself* on a motley litter .
Gringoire bore this new disaster heroically ; he *picked* *himself* up , and reached the water 's edge .
`` Oh ! '' said he , `` I would gladly *drown* *myself* , were the water not so cold ! ''
`` At least , '' he said to himself , " I shall there have a firebrand of joy wherewith to *warm* *myself* , and I can sup on some crumbs of the three great armorial bearings of royal sugar which have been erected on the public refreshment  stall of the city .
Just see if those boobies will *put* *themselves* out ! Move aside !
They are *warming* *themselves* , much pleasure may it give them !
And , *seating* *herself* , she gracefully presented her tambourine to the goat .
Djali *reared* *himself* on his hind legs , and began to bleat , marching along with so much dainty gravity , that the entire circle of spectators burst into a laugh at this parody of the interested devoutness of the captain of pistoliers .
The goat *seated* *himself* on his hind quarters , and began to bleat , waving his fore feet in so strange a manner , that , with the exception of the bad French , and worse Latin , Jacques Charmolue was there complete ,   gesture , accent , and attitude .
`` Will you *take* *yourself* off , you Egyptian grasshopper ? '' cried a sharp voice , which proceeded from the darkest corner of the Place .
No supper , no shelter ; he *saw* *himself* pressed on all sides by necessity , and he found necessity very crabbed .
Only joy *made* *itself* felt , only pride dominated .
He 'll *get* *himself* devoured ! "
The formidable Quasimodo had *hurled* *himself* from the litter , and the women turned aside their eyes in order not to see him tear the archdeacon asunder .
Quasimodo *placed* *himself* in front of the priest , set in play the muscles of his athletic fists , and glared upon the assailants with the snarl of an angry tiger .
Quasimodo then *constituted* *himself* the rearguard , and followed the archdeacon , walking backwards , squat , surly , monstrous , bristling , gathering up his limbs , licking his boar 's tusks , growling like a wild beast , and imparting to the crowd immense vibrations , with a look or a gesture .
There was in this voluntary abdication of his freewill , in this fancy *submitting* *itself* to another fancy , which suspects it not , a mixture of fantastic independence and blind obedience , something indescribable , intermediate between slavery and liberty , which pleased Gringoire ,   a spirit essentially compound , undecided , and complex , holding the extremities of all extremes , incessantly suspended between all human propensities , and neutralizing one by the other .
He was fond of *comparing* *himself* to Mahomet 's coffin , attracted in two different directions by two loadstones , and hesitating eternally between the heights and the depths , between the vault and the pavement , between fall and ascent , between zenith and nadir .
The gypsy gracefully *raised* *herself* upright upon the officer 's saddle , placed both hands upon the young man 's shoulders , and gazed fixedly at him for several seconds , as though enchanted with his good looks and with the aid which he had just rendered her .
`` Captain Phoebus de Chteaupers , at your service , my beauty ! '' replied the officer , *drawing* *himself* up .
Moreover , his hand was tolerably free ; he stopped up his nose and *resigned* *himself* .
Gringoire who was not quite dead yet , half *raised* *himself* .
There is my pallet burning . `` And *comparing* *himself* to the pilot who suffers shipwreck by night , '' ~ Salve ~ , `` he added piously , '' ~ salve , maris stella ~ ! "
And then , in proportion as he plunged deeper into the street , cripples in bowls , blind men and lame men , swarmed about him , and men with one arm , and with one eye , and the leprous with their sores , some emerging from little streets adjacent , some from the air  holes of cellars , howling , bellowing , yelping , all limping and halting , all *flinging* *themselves* towards the light , and humped up in the mire , like snails after a shower .
Reality made its way to the light around him , struck his eyes , struck his feet , and demolished , bit by bit , all that frightful poetry with which he had , at first , *believed* *himself* to be surrounded .
He was forced to perceive that he was not walking in the Styx , but in mud , that he was elbowed not by demons , but by thieves ; that it was not his soul which was in question , but his life ( since he lacked that precious conciliator , which *places* *itself* so effectually between the bandit and the honest man   a purse ) .
The spectacle which *presented* *itself* to his eyes , when his ragged escort finally deposited him at the end of his trip , was not fitted to bear him back to poetry , even to the poetry of hell .
*Justify* *yourself* ; announce your titles . "
Zounds ! *let* *yourself* be hung , and do n't kick up such a row over it ! "
Then he shouted shrilly : `` Silence ! '' and , as the cauldron and the frying  pan did not heed him , and continued their duet , he jumped down from his hogshead , gave a kick to the boiler , which rolled ten paces away bearing the child with it , a kick to the frying  pan , which upset in the fire with all its grease , and gravely remounted his throne , without *troubling* *himself* about the stifled tears of the child , or the grumbling of the old woman , whose supper was wasting away in a fine white flame .
Trouillefou made a sign , and the duke , the emperor , and the passed masters of pickpockets , and the isolated robbers , came and *ranged* *themselves* around him in a horseshoe , of which Gringoire , still roughly held by the body , formed the centre .
Here is a means of *extricating* *yourself* from your predicament for the moment .
`` Do you consent , '' resumed Clopin , `` to *enroll* *yourself* among the people of the knife ? ''
`` You *recognize* *yourself* as a member of the free bourgeoisie ? '' * added the King of Thunes .
Several thieves *detached* *themselves* from the circle , and returned a moment later .
`` What are they going to do ? '' Gringoire *asked* *himself* with some uneasiness .
The band of thieves applauded Clopin 's words , and *arranged* *themselves* in a circle round the gibbet , with a laugh so pitiless that Gringoire perceived that he amused them too much not to have everything to fear from them .
Perceiving that no respite , nor reprieve , nor subterfuge was possible , he bravely decided upon his course of action ; he wound his right foot round his left leg , *raised* *himself* on his left foot , and stretched out his arm : but at the moment when his hand touched the manikin , his body , which was now supported upon one leg only , wavered on the stool which had but three ; he made an involuntary effort to *support* *himself* by the manikin , lost his balance , and fell heavily to the ground , deafened by the fatal vibration of the thousand bells of the manikin , which , yielding to the impulse imparted by his hand , described first a rotary motion , and then swayed majestically between the two posts .
`` Now , '' resumed Clopin Trouillefou , `` as soon as I clap my hands , you , Andry the Red , will fling the stool to the ground with a blow of your knee ; you , Franois Chante  Prune , will cling to the feet of the rascal ; and you , Bellevigne , will *fling* *yourself* on his shoulders ; and all three at once , do you hear ? ''
`` Are you ready ? '' said Clopin Trouillefou to the three thieves , who *held* *themselves* in readiness to fall upon Gringoire .
The vagabonds , male and female , *ranged* *themselves* gently along her path , and their brutal faces beamed beneath her glance .
A few moments later our poet *found* *himself* in a tiny arched chamber , very cosy , very warm , seated at a table which appeared to ask nothing better than to make some loans from a larder hanging near by , having a good bed in prospect , and alone with a pretty girl .
He began seriously to *take* *himself* for a personage in a fairy tale ; he cast his eyes about him from time to time to time , as though to see if the chariot of fire , harnessed to two  winged chimeras , which alone could have so rapidly transported him from Tartarus to Paradise , were still there .
At last she came and *seated* *herself* near the table , and Gringoire was able to scrutinize her at his ease .
`` Can you ask me , adorable Esmeralda ? '' replied Gringoire , with so passionate an accent that he was *himself* *astonished* at it on hearing *himself* *speak* .
She bounded from one end of the tiny room to the other , stooped down , and *raised* *herself* again , with a little poniard in her hand , before Gringoire had even had time to see whence the poniard came ; proud and angry , with swelling lips and inflated nostrils , her cheeks as red as an api apple , * and her eyes darting lightnings .
At the same time , the white goat *placed* *itself* in front of her , and presented to Gringoire a hostile front , bristling with two pretty horns , gilded and very sharp .
She replied by a negative sign of the head , and her pensive glance *fixed* *itself* upon the vault of the ceiling .
Gringoire colored , and took the hint . It was evident that the young girl was alluding to the slight assistance which he had rendered her in the critical situation in which she had *found* *herself* two hours previously .
A fruit dealer gave me a plum here , a baker flung me a crust there ; in the evening I *got* *myself* taken up by the watch , who threw me into prison , and there I found a bundle of straw .
In the winter I *warmed* *myself* in the sun , under the porch of the Htel de Sens , and I thought it very ridiculous that the fire on Saint John 's Day was reserved for the dog days .
There was no piece of furniture adapted to sleeping purposes , except a tolerably long wooden coffer ; and its cover was carved , to boot ; which afforded Gringoire , when he *stretched* *himself* out upon it , a sensation somewhat similar to that which Micromgas would feel if he were to lie down on the Alps .
`` Come ! '' said he , *adjusting* *himself* as well as possible , " I must *resign* *myself* .
And , in the first place , to cite only a few leading examples , there certainly are few finer architectural pages than this faade , where , successively and at once , the three portals hollowed out in an arch ; the broidered and dentated cordon of the eight and twenty royal niches ; the immense central rose window , flanked by its two lateral windows , like a priest by his deacon and subdeacon ; the frail and lofty gallery of trefoil arcades , which supports a heavy platform above its fine , slender columns ; and lastly , the two black and massive towers with their slate penthouses , harmonious parts of a magnificent whole , superposed in five gigantic stories ;   *develop* *themselves* before the eye , in a mass and without confusion , with their innumerable details of statuary , carving , and sculpture , joined powerfully to the tranquil grandeur of the whole ; a vast symphony in stone , so to speak ; the colossal work of one man and one people , all together one and complex , like the Iliads and the Romanceros , whose sister it is ; prodigious product of the grouping together of all the forces of an epoch , where , upon each stone , one sees the fancy of the workman disciplined by the genius of the artist start forth in a hundred fashions ; a sort of human creation , in a word , powerful and fecund as the divine creation of which it seems to have stolen the double character ,   variety , eternity .
And if we ascend the cathedral , without mentioning a thousand barbarisms of every sort ,   what has become of that charming little bell tower , which rested upon the point of intersection of the cross  roofs , and which , no less frail and no less bold than its neighbor ( also destroyed ) , the spire of the Sainte  Chapelle , *buried* *itself* in the sky , farther forward than the towers , slender , pointed , sonorous , carved in open work .
One can distinguish on its ruins three sorts of lesions , all three of which cut into it at different depths ; first , time , which has insensibly notched its surface here and there , and gnawed it everywhere ; next , political and religious revolution , which , blind and wrathful by nature , have *flung* *themselves* tumultuously upon it , torn its rich garment of carving and sculpture , burst its rose windows , broken its necklace of arabesques and tiny figures , torn out its statues , sometimes because of their mitres , sometimes because of their crowns ; lastly , fashions , even more grotesque and foolish , which , since the anarchical and splendid deviations of the Renaissance , have followed each other in the necessary decadence of architecture .
It is the old oak *crowning* *itself* , and which , to heap the measure full , is stung , bitten , and gnawed by caterpillars .
The Saxon architect completed the erection of the first pillars of the nave , when the pointed arch , which dates from the Crusade , arrived and *placed* *itself* as a conqueror upon the large Romanesque capitals which should support only round arches .
There are , invariably , two naves , which intersect in a cross , and whose upper portion , rounded into an apse , forms the choir ; there are always the side aisles , for interior processions , for chapels ,   a sort of lateral walks or promenades where the principal nave *discharges* *itself* through the spaces between the pillars .
There they *plant* *themselves* squarely , *cut* *themselves* gardens from the fields , and take their ease .
In the sixteenth , it seems to retreat visibly , and to *bury* *itself* deeper and deeper in the old city , so thick had the new city already become outside of it .
But these are the principal masses which were then to be distinguished when the eye began to *accustom* *itself* to this tumult of edifices .
Thus the City first *presented* *itself* to the eye , with its stern to the east , and its prow to the west .
The ground of the University was hilly ; Mount Sainte  Genevive formed an enormous mound to the south ; and it was a sight to see from the summit of Notre  Dame how that throng of narrow and tortuous streets ( to  day the Latin Quarter ) , those bunches of houses which , spread out in every direction from the top of this eminence , *precipitated* *themselves* in disorder , and almost perpendicularly down its flanks , nearly to the water 's edge , having the air , some of falling , others of clambering up again , and all of holding to one another .
But that which attracted the eye most of all , and fixed it for a long time on that point , was the *abbey* *itself* .
It is certain that this monastery , which had a grand air , both as a church and as a seignory ; that abbatial palace , where the bishops of Paris *counted* *themselves* happy if they could pass the night ; that refectory , upon which the architect had bestowed the air , the beauty , and the rose window of a cathedral ; that elegant chapel of the Virgin ; that monumental dormitory ; those vast gardens ; that portcullis ; that drawbridge ; that envelope of battlements which notched to the eye the verdure of the surrounding meadows ; those courtyards , where gleamed men at arms , intermingled with golden copes ;   the whole grouped and clustered about three lofty spires , with round arches , well planted upon a Gothic apse , made a magnificent figure against the horizon .
Nevertheless , the remarkably pointed and lofty roof of the modern palace , bristling with carved eaves , covered with sheets of lead , where coiled a thousand fantastic arabesques of sparkling incrustations of gilded bronze , that roof , so curiously damascened , darted upwards gracefully from the midst of the brown ruins of the ancient edifice ; whose huge and ancient towers , rounded by age like casks , sinking together with old age , and *rending* *themselves* from top to bottom , resembled great bellies unbuttoned .
Finally , the fourth compartment , which *stretched* *itself* out in the agglomeration of the roofs on the right bank , and which occupied the western angle of the enclosure , and the banks of the river down stream , was a fresh cluster of palaces and Htels pressed close about the base of the Louvre .
Behind the Bastille there were twenty hovels clustered round the curious sculptures of the Croix  Faubin and the flying buttresses of the Abbey of Saint  Antoine des Champs ; then Popincourt , lost amid wheat fields ; then la Courtille , a merry village of wine  shops ; the hamlet of Saint  Laurent with its church whose bell tower , from afar , seemed to *add* *itself* to the pointed towers of the Porte Saint  Martin ; the Faubourg Saint  Denis , with the vast enclosure of Saint  Ladre ; beyond the Montmartre Gate , the Grange  Batelire , encircled with white walls ; behind it , with its chalky slopes , Montmartre , which had then almost as many churches as windmills , and which has kept only the windmills , for society no longer demands anything but bread for the body .
But this splendid moment lasted only for a short time ; the Renaissance was not impartial ; it did not *content* *itself* with building , it wished to destroy ; it is true that it required the room .
At the rate at which Paris is now proceeding , it will *renew* *itself* every fifty years .
Decretals digested , he *flung* *himself* upon medicine , on the liberal arts .
This catastrophe was a crisis in Claude 's existence . Orphaned , the eldest , head of the family at the age of nineteen , he *felt* *himself* rudely recalled from the reveries of school to the realities of this world .
He *threw* *himself* , therefore , into the love for his little Jehan with the passion of a character already profound , ardent , concentrated ; that poor frail creature , pretty , fair  haired , rosy , and curly ,   that orphan with another orphan for his only support , touched him to the bottom of his heart ; and grave thinker as he was , he set to meditating upon Jehan with an infinite compassion .
He resolved to *consecrate* *himself* entirely to a future for which he was responsible in the sight of God , and never to have any other wife , anyother child than the happiness and fortune of his brother .
Therefore , he *attached* *himself* more closely than ever to the clerical profession .
It was a sort of investment of good works , which he was effecting in the name of his young brother ; it was a stock of good works which he wished to amass in advance for him , in case the little rogue should some day *find* *himself* short of that coin , the only sort which is received at the toll  bar of paradise .
When , still a little fellow , he had *dragged* *himself* tortuously and by jerks beneath the shadows of its vaults , he seemed , with his human face and his bestial limbs , the natural reptile of that humid and sombre pavement , upon which the shadow of the Romanesque capitals cast so many strange forms .
It is thus that , little by little , developing always in sympathy with the cathedral , living there , sleeping there , hardly ever leaving it , subject every hour to the mysterious impress , he came to resemble it , he *incrusted* *himself* in it , so to speak , and became an integral part of it .
For , in order not to make others laugh , the very moment that he *found* *himself* to be deaf , he resolved upon a silence which he only broke when he was alone .
From his very first steps among men , he had *felt* *himself* , later on he had *seen* *himself* , spewed out , blasted , rejected .
Quasimodo *stationed* *himself* in front of this open throat ; he crouched and rose with the oscillations of the bell , breathed in this overwhelming breath , gazed by turns at the deep place , which swarmed with people , two hundred feet below him , and at that enormous , brazen tongue which came , second after second , to howl in his ear .
All of a sudden , the frenzy of the bell seized upon him ; his look became extraordinary ; he lay in wait for the great bell as it passed , as a spider lies in wait for a fly , and *flung* *himself* abruptly upon it , with might and main .
He was everywhere about it ; in fact , he *multiplied* *himself* on all points of the structure .
When the poor bellringer became deaf , there had been established between him and Claude Frollo , a language of signs , mysterious and understood by *themselves* *alone* .
Again , he had set in movement a band of scholars , who had *flung* *themselves* upon a wine  shop in classic fashion , quasi ~ classico excitati ~ , had then beaten the tavern  keeper `` with offensive cudgels , '' and joyously pillaged the tavern , even to smashing in the hogsheads of wine in the cellar .
Claude , saddened and discouraged in his human affections , by all this , had *flung* *himself* eagerly into the arms of learning , that sister which , at least does not laugh in your face , and which always pays you , though in money that is sometimes a little hollow , for the attention which you have paid to her .
Then he had penetrated further , lower , beneath all that finished , material , limited knowledge ; he had , perhaps , risked his soul , and had *seated* *himself* in the cavern at that mysterious table of the alchemists , of the astrologers , of the hermetics , of which Averros , Gillaume de Paris , and Nicolas Flamel hold the end in the Middle Ages ; and which extends in the East , by the light of the seven  branched candlestick , to Solomon , Pythagoras , and Zoroaster .
Furthermore , it is certain that the archdeacon had *established* *himself* in that one of the two towers which looks upon the Grve , just beside the frame for the bells , a very secret little cell , into which no one , not even the bishop , entered without his leave , it was said .
By profession as well as by character , he had always *held* *himself* aloof from women ; he seemed to hate them more than ever .
The archdeacon had just *seated* *himself* , by the light of a three  jetted copper lamp , before a vast coffer crammed with manuscripts .
`` Monsieur , '' returned the archdeacon , " if that be your motive , you would have done as well not to *put* *yourself* out of breath climbing my staircase .
`` Whose archdeacon I am ? '' Dom Claude *contented* *himself* with replying , with tranquil hauteur .
Nevertheless , if the desire possesses you of *putting* *yourself* under discipline at your age , and of deciphering the formidable alphabet of the sages , come to me ; it is well , I will make the effort .
We will *content* *ourselves* with the fragments of the book of Hermes which we have here .
When the memory of the first races *felt* *itself* overloaded , when the mass of reminiscences of the human race became so heavy and so confused that speech naked and flying , ran the risk of losing them on the way , men transcribed them on the soil in a manner which was at once the most visible , most durable , and most natural .
While Daedalus , who is force , measured ; while Orpheus , who is intelligence , sang ;   the pillar , which is a letter ; the arcade , which is a syllable ; the pyramid , which is a word ,   all set in movement at once by a law of geometry and by a law of poetry , *grouped* *themselves* , combined , amalgamated , descended , ascended , placed *themselves* *side* by side on the soil , *ranged* *themselves* in stories in the sky , until they had written under the dictation of the general idea of an epoch , those marvellous books which were also marvellous edifices : the Pagoda of Eklinga , the Rhamseion of Egypt , the Temple of Solomon .
The hieroglyph deserts the cathedral , and *betakes* *itself* to blazoning the donjon keep , in order to lend prestige to feudalism .
Thought was then free only in this manner ; hence it never *wrote* *itself* out completely except on the books called edifices .
Thought , under the form of edifice , could have *beheld* *itself* burned in the public square by the hands of the executioner , in its manuscript form , if it had been sufficiently imprudent to *risk* *itself* thus ; thought , as the door of a church , would have been a spectator of the punishment of thought as a book .
Having thus only this resource , masonry , in order to make its way to the light , *flung* *itself* upon it from all quarters .
All other arts obeyed , and *placed* *themselves* under the discipline of architecture .
There was nothing down to poor poetry ,   properly speaking , that which persisted in vegetating in manuscripts ,   which was not forced , in order to make something of itself , to come and *frame* *itself* in the edifice in the shape of a hymn or of prose ; the same part , after all , which the tragedies of AEschylus had played in the sacerdotal festivals of Greece ; Genesis , in the temple of Solomon .
In the Hindu , Egyptian , or Romanesque architecture , one feels the priest , nothing but the priest , whether he *calls* *himself* Brahmin , Magian , or Pope .
Human thought discovers a mode of *perpetuating* *itself* , not only more durable and more resisting than architecture , but still more simple and easy .
Now it *converts* *itself* into a flock of birds , *scatters* *itself* to the four winds , and occupies all points of air and space at once .
And when one observes that this mode of expression is not only the most conservative , but also the most simple , the most convenient , the most practicable for all ; when one reflects that it does not drag after it bulky baggage , and does not set in motion a heavy apparatus ; when one compares thought forced , in order to *transform* *itself* into an edifice , to put in motion four or five other arts and tons of gold , a whole mountain of stones , a whole forest of timber  work , a whole nation of workmen ; when one compares it to the thought which becomes a book , and for which a little paper , a little ink , and a pen suffice ,   how can one be surprised that human intelligence should have quitted architecture for printing ?
So they *emancipate* *themselves* , break the yoke of the architect , and *take* *themselves* off , each one in its own direction .
Thought *emancipates* *itself* in all directions at the same time as the arts .
With Michael Angelo dead , what does this miserable architecture , which *survived* *itself* in the state of a spectre , do ?
Now , we ask , which of the three arts has really represented human thought for the last three centuries ? which translates it ? which expresses not only its literary and scholastic vagaries , but its vast , profound , universal movement ? which constantly *superposes* *itself* , without a break , without a gap , upon the human race , which walks a monster with a thousand legs ?   Architecture or printing ?
Let the reader now imagine what an investment of funds it would require to rewrite the architectural book ; to cause thousands of edifices to swarm once more upon the soil ; to return to those epochs when the throng of monuments was such , according to the statement of an eye witness , `` that one would have said that the world in *shaking* *itself* , had cast off its old garments in order to *cover* *itself* with a white vesture of churches . '' ~ Erat enim ut si mundus , ipse excutiendo semet , rejecta vetustate , candida ecclesiarum vestem indueret ~ .
He had clung to it , he had *incorporated* *himself* with it , he had so *identified* *himself* with it that he had escaped that fury for change which possessed Louis XI . , a tormenting and industrious king , whose policy it was to maintain the elasticity of his power by frequent appointments and revocations .
Add to this the pleasure of *displaying* *himself* in rides about the city , and of making his fine military costume , which you may still admire sculptured on his tomb in the abbey of Valmont in Normandy , and his morion , all embossed at Montlhry , stand out a contrast against the parti  colored red and tawny robes of the aldermen and police .
He could not have *told* *himself* .
He 's eating the plaintiff , he 's eating the suits , he eats , he chews , he crams , he *fills* *himself* .
Thanks to this precaution , which he always was careful to take at the moment when on the point of beginning an examination , he knew beforehand the names , titles , and misdeeds of the accused , made cut and dried responses to questions foreseen , and succeeded in *extricating* *himself* from all the windings of the interrogation without allowing his deafness to be too apparent .
Hence he took great care to conceal his deafness from the eyes of all , and he generally succeeded so well that he had reached the point of *deluding* *himself* , which is , by the way , easier than is supposed .
*Explain* *yourself* upon all these points .  Clerk , have you written down what the prisoner has said thus far ? "
" So this is as much as to say , perverse and thieving knave that you are , that you *permit* *yourself* to be lacking in respect towards the Auditor of the Chtelet , to the magistrate committed to the popular police of Paris , charged with searching out crimes , delinquencies , and evil conduct ; with controlling all trades , and interdicting monopoly ; with maintaining the pavements ; with debarring the hucksters of chickens , poultry , and water  fowl ; of superintending the measuring of fagots and other sorts of wood ; of purging the city of mud , and the air of contagious maladies ; in a word , with attending continually to public affairs , without wages or hope of salary !
And he *seated* *himself* , utterly breathless , wiping away the great drops of sweat which fell from his brow and drenched , like tears , the parchments spread out before him .
This was too much ; the provost could no longer *restrain* *himself* .
However , at the moment when Master Florian Barbedienne was reading the sentence in his turn , before signing it , the clerk felt *himself* *moved* with pity for the poor wretch of a prisoner , and , in the hope of obtaining some mitigation of the penalty , he approached as near the auditor 's ear as possible , and said , pointing to Quasimodo , `` That man is deaf . ''
And , meanwhile , four mounted sergeants , who have just *posted* *themselves* at the four sides of the pillory , have already concentrated around themselves a goodly proportion of the populace scattered on the Place , who *condemn* *themselves* to immobility and fatigue in the hope of a small execution .
This little cell had been celebrated in Paris for nearly three centuries , ever since Madame Rolande de la Tour  Roland , in mourning for her father who died in the Crusades , had caused it to be hollowed out in the wall of her own house , in order to *immure* *herself* there forever , keeping of all her palace only this lodging whose door was walled up , and whose window stood open , winter and summer , giving all the rest to the poor and to God .
At her death , at the moment when she was passing to the other sepulchre , she had bequeathed this one in perpetuity to afflicted women , mothers , widows , or maidens , who should wish to pray much for others or for themselves , and who should desire to *inter* *themselves* alive in a great grief or a great penance .
The majority had *contented* *themselves* with holding the memory of Rolande sacred , and converting her rags into relics .
To *confine* *ourselves* to the cell in the Tour  Roland , we must say that it had never lacked recluses .
Some serious motive , no doubt , prevented his biting it ( the cake ) , for he *contented* *himself* with gazing tenderly at it .
Gallantry claimed her once more ; men came to see la Chantefleurie ; she found customers again for her merchandise , and out of all these horrors she made baby clothes , caps and bibs , bodices with shoulder  straps of lace , and tiny bonnets of satin , without even thinking of *buying* *herself* another coverlet .   Master Eustache , I have already told you not to eat that cake .   It is certain that little Agnes , that was the child 's name , a baptismal name , for it was a long time since la Chantefleurie had had any surname   it is certain that that little one was more swathed in ribbons and embroideries than a dauphiness of Dauphiny !
The wise people said to the foolish : `` Do n't go there ! '' and then *went* *themselves* on the sly .
It was the monstrous child of some gypsy woman , who had *given* *herself* to the devil .
La Chantefleurie *flung* *herself* upon the little shoe , all that remained to her of all that she loved .
She had clung to it as to *life* *itself* .
Monseigneur the archbishop *interested* *himself* in the child of Egypt , exorcised it , blessed it , removed the devil carefully from its body , and sent it to Paris , to be exposed on the wooden bed at Notre  Dame , as a foundling . "
It was , in fact , a melancholy spectacle which *presented* *itself* to the eyes of the two women , as they gazed through the grating of the Rat  Hole , neither stirring nor breathing .
What shall we do to rouse her ? `` Eustache , who , up to that moment had been diverted by a little carriage drawn by a large dog , which had just passed , suddenly perceived that his three conductresses were gazing at something through the window , and , curiosity taking possession of him in his turn , he climbed upon a stone post , *elevated* *himself* on tiptoe , and applied his fat , red face to the opening , shouting , '' Mother , let me see too ! "
Every limb was trembling , her voice quivered , her eyes flashed , she had *raised* *herself* upon her knees ; suddenly she extended her thin , white hand towards the child , who was regarding her with a look of astonishment . `` Take away that child ! '' she cried .
A moment later , however , she moved , and they beheld her *drag* *herself* , on her knees and elbows , to the corner where the little shoe was .
`` Can she have *killed* *herself* ? '' said Gervaise , venturing to pass her head through the air  hole . " Sister !
It *amused* *itself* with watching the pillory , a very simple sort of monument , composed of a cube of masonry about six feet high and hollow in the interior .
They were forced to *content* *themselves* with those four stretches of rubble work , backed with sandstone , and a wretched stone gibbet , meagre and bare , on one side .
He had *allowed* *himself* to be led , pushed , carried , lifted , bound , and bound again .
During this gayety , a man in the livery of the city , short of stature and robust of mien , mounted the platform and *placed* *himself* near the victim .
Here , as in the Grand Hall , the women *rendered* *themselves* particularly prominent .
But as soon as the mule was near enough to the pillory to allow of its rider recognizing the victim , the priest dropped his eyes , beat a hasty retreat , spurred on rigorously , as though in haste to *rid* *himself* of humiliating appeals , and not at all desirous of being saluted and recognized by a poor fellow in such a predicament .
It is certain that a vague and indistinct desire to please the handsome officer animated them all , that his splendid uniform was the target of all their coquetries , and that from the moment he *presented* *himself* , there existed among them a secret , suppressed rivalry , which they hardly acknowledged even to themselves , but which broke forth , none the less , every instant , in their gestures and remarks .
Each one *felt* *herself* , in some sort , wounded in her beauty .
`` My dear , '' continued Fleur  de  Lys , with decided sharpness , `` You will *get* *yourself* taken up by the sumptuary police for your gilded girdle . ''
Every day , an hour before sunset , the archdeacon ascended the staircase to the tower , and *shut* *himself* up in this cell , where he sometimes passed whole nights .
The crowd was swarming around her ; from time to time , a man accoutred in red and yellow made them form into a circle , and then returned , *seated* *himself* on a chair a few paces from the dancer , and took the goat 's head on his knees .
This garment *presented* *itself* , I took it , and I left my ancient black smock , which , for a hermetic like myself , was far from being hermetically closed .
What would you have ? it is an eclipse . Apollo *himself* *tended* the flocks of Admetus . "
All at once his deep  set eye assumed so sagacious and penetrating an expression , that Gringoire *felt* *himself* , so to speak , searched to the bottom of the soul by that glance .
She *believed* *herself* to be hated , in all the city , by but two persons , of whom she often spoke in terror : the sacked nun of the Tour  Roland , a villanous recluse who cherished some secret grudge against these gypsies , and who cursed the poor dancer every time that the latter passed before her window ; and a priest , who never met her without casting at her looks and words which frightened her .
Every morning , he set out from the lair of the thieves , generally with the gypsy ; he helped her make her collections of targes * and little blanks * * in the squares ; each evening he returned to the same roof with her , allowed her to *bolt* *herself* into her little chamber , and slept the sleep ofthe just . A very sweet existence , taking it all in all , he said , and well adapted to revery .
On arriving in the lofty bell chamber , Quasimodo gazed for some time at the six bells and shook his head sadly , as though groaning over some foreign element which had *interposed* *itself* in his heart between them and him .
It chanced that upon a fine morning in this same month of March , I think it was on Saturday the 29th , Saint Eustache 's day , our young friend the student , Jehan Frollo du Moulin , perceived , as he was *dressing* *himself* , that his breeches , which contained his purse , gave out no metallic ring . `` Poor purse , '' he said , drawing it from his fob , " what ! not the smallest parisis ! how cruelly the dice , beer  pots , and Venus have depleted thee !
He *dressed* *himself* sadly .
The Petit  Pont traversed , the Rue Neuve  Sainte  Genevive crossed , Jehan de Molendino *found* *himself* in front of Notre  Dame .
Something very similar to Faust 's cell *presented* *itself* to Jehan 's view , when he ventured his head through the half  open door .
`` Hence , '' continued the priest , " one wretched thought is sufficient to render a man weak and *beside* *himself* !
The archdeacon returned and *seated* *himself* in his armchair , and placed his head on both his hands , as a sick man does , whose head is heavy and burning .
This was a formidable exordium . Jehan *braced* *himself* for a rough encounter .
A malicious page *amused* *himself* by splashing the scholars , by making his horse gallop through the mire ! "
*Hide* *yourself* quickly under the furnace , and do not breathe . "
The scholar *concealed* *himself* ; just then a happy idea occurred to him .
The first point which struck the eye of our Jehan ( who , as the reader will readily surmise , had *ensconced* *himself* in his nook in such a manner as to enable him to see and hear everything at his good pleasure ) was the perfect sadness of the garments and the visage of this new  corner .
He had made the latter a sign to *seat* *himself* on a stool near the door , and , after several moments of a silence which appeared to be a continuation of a preceding meditation , he said to him in a rather patronizing way , `` Good day , Master Jacques . ''
`` I will tell you that hereafter , '' he stammered , in a voice that was barely articulate ; then he resumed with an effort , `` *Busy* *yourself* with Marc Cenaine . ''
At that moment , a bewildered fly which was seeking the March sun , *flung* *itself* through the net and became entangled there .
Thou wert flying towards learning , light , the sun . Thou hadst no other care than to reach the open air , the full daylight of eternal truth ; but in *precipitating* *thyself* towards the dazzling window which opens upon the other world ,   upon the world of brightness , intelligence , and science   blind fly ! senseless , learned man ! thou hast not perceived that subtle spider 's web , stretched by destiny betwixt the light and thee   thou hast flung *thyself* *headlong* into it , and now thou art struggling with head broken and mangled wings between the iron antennae of fate !
How many systems vainly *fling* *themselves* buzzing against that eternal pane ! "
`` It is a cat of mine , '' said the archdeacon , quickly , `` who is *regaling* *herself* under there with a mouse , ''
He stamped his foot when he *found* *himself* on the ground once again . `` Oh ! '' said he , " good and honorable pavement of Paris , cursed staircase , fit to put the angels of Jacob 's ladder out of breath !
What was I thinking of to *thrust* *myself* into that stone gimlet which pierces the sky ; all for the sake of eating bearded cheese , and looking at the bell  towers of Paris through a hole in the wall ! "
Dom Claude started , *interrupted* *himself* and , to the great amazement of Charmolue , turned round and beheld his brother Jehan accosting a tall officer at the door of the Gondelaurier mansion .
`` Horns and *thunder* *yourself* ! '' replied the student . `` Come now , fair captain , whence comes this overflow of fine words ? ''
He heard them singing at the top of their lungs the ancient refrain ,   The children of the Petits Carreaux *let* *themselves* be hung like calves .
Only at intervals did some little ragged boy *raise* *himself* on tiptoe as far as the ledge , and hurl into the drinking  shop , that ancient , jeering hoot , with which drunken men were then pursued : `` Aux Houls , saouls , saouls , saouls ! ''
This mantle he had just purchased of the old  clothes man , in the vicinity of the `` Eve 's Apple , '' no doubt to *protect* *himself* from the cold of the March evening , possibly also , to conceal his costume .
The man in the mantle went and *stationed* *himself* on the watch under a porch on the other side of the street .
`` Captain Phoebus de Chteaupers , thou liest ! '' Any one who could have beheld at that moment the captain 's inflamed countenance , his leap backwards , so violent that he *disengaged* *himself* from the grip which held him , the proud air with which he clapped his hand on his swordhilt , and , in the presence of this wrath the gloomy immobility of the man in the cloak ,   any one who could have beheld this would have been frightened .
So I will *betake* *myself* to my rendezvous ; it is for seven o 'clock , as you know . " Here Phoebus scratched his ear .
When he *recovered* *himself* , Phoebus and Esmeralda were alone seated on the wooden coffer beside the lamp which made these two youthful figures and a miserable pallet at the end of the attic stand out plainly before the archdeacon 's eyes .
I love my captain . " Phoebus again profited by the opportunity to impress upon her beautiful bent neck a kiss which made the young girl *straighten* *herself* up as scarlet as a poppy .
Phoebus returned and *seated* *himself* beside her , but much closer than before .
It is I. Look at me ; it is the little one whom thou wilt surely not repulse , who comes , who *comes* *herself* to seek thee .
*Gringoire* *himself* was not disinclined to regard this as altogether alarming and probable .
Suddenly it caught sight of the gypsy girl , and leaping over the table and the head of a clerk , in two bounds it was at her knees ; then it rolled gracefully on its mistress 's feet , soliciting a word or a caress ; but the accused remained motionless , and poor Djali *himself* *obtained* not a glance .
`` He is *destroying* *himself* ! '' he cried aloud ; `` You see well that he does not know what he is doing . ''
A counsellor having remarked that the gentlemen were fatigued , and that it would be a long time to wait until the torture was at an end , the president replied that a magistrate mustknow how to *sacrifice* *himself* to his duty .
`` What an annoying and vexatious hussy , '' said an aged judge , `` to *get* *herself* put to the question when one has not supped ! ''
Pray take the trouble to *seat* *yourself* on this bed .
The unfortunate girl *felt* *herself* so utterly abandoned by God and men , that her head fell upon her breast like an inert thing which has no power in itself .
`` Take that off ! '' she cried angrily ; and *drawing* *herself* up , with her hair all dishevelled : `` Mercy ! '' She darted from the bed to *fling* *herself* at the feet of the king 's procurator , but her leg was fast in the heavy block of oak and iron , and she sank down upon the boot , more crushed than a bee with a lump of lead on its wing .
And she fell back upon the leather bed , dying , doubled up , *allowing* *herself* to hang suspended from the strap buckled round her waist .
She had *dragged* *herself* to her place .
When Charmolue had *installed* *himself* in a magisterial manner in his own , he *seated* *himself* , then rose and said , without exhibiting too much self  complacency at his success ,   `` The accused has confessed all . ''
All at once , in the middle of a fine period , he *interrupted* *himself* , and his glance , ordinarily so gentle and even stupid , became menacing .
So saying , he pointed to the little goat , who , on seeing Charmolue gesticulating , had , in point of fact , thought it appropriate to do the same , and had *seated* *himself* on his haunches , reproducing to the best of his ability , with his forepaws and his bearded head the pathetic pantomine of the king 's procurator in the ecclesiastical court .
He put on his cap again and *seated* *himself* .
She had a recollection of a sentence of death pronounced somewhere , against some one , then of having been *herself* *carried* away , and of waking up in darkness and silence , chilled to the heart .
She had *dragged* *herself* along on her hands . Then iron rings that cut her ankles , and chains had rattled .
Then she had *seated* *herself* on that straw and , sometimes , for the sake of changing her attitude , on the last stone step in her dungeon .
Yes , I was happy , at least I *believed* *myself* to be so .
In a few moments , I felt the gross things of earth flee far away , and I *found* *myself* once more calm , quieted , and serene , in the presence of the tranquil radiance of eternal truth .
Surprised , intoxicated , charmed , I *allowed* *myself* to gaze upon thee .
" Already half fascinated , I tried to cling fast to something and *hold* *myself* back from falling .
I *drew* *myself* up ; I fled ; but alas ! something within me had fallen never to rise again , something had come upon me from which I could not flee . "
" Unable to *rid* *myself* of it , since I heard your song humming ever in my head , beheld your feet dancing always on my breviary , felt even at night , in my dreams , your form in contact with my own , I desired to see you again , to touch you , to know who you were , to see whether I should really find you like the ideal image which I had retained of you , to shatter my dream , perchance , with reality .
Then   how *stop* *myself* on that slope of hell ?   then I no longer belonged to myself .
But every evil thought is inexorable , and insists on becoming a deed ; but where I *believed* *myself* to be all powerful , fate was more powerful than I. Alas ! it is fate which has seized you and delivered you to the terrible wheels of the machine which I had constructed doubly . Listen .
You *think* *yourself* unhappy ; alas ! alas ! you know not what unhappiness is .
The priest *dragged* *himself* towards her on his knees .
Oh ! *save* *yourself* ! spare me ! "
The young girl *flung* *herself* upon him like a raging tigress , and pushed him upon the steps of the staircase with supernatural force .
Nothing shall unite us ! not *hell* *itself* !
She smiles upon it , she kisses it , she talks to it ; she *asks* *herself* whether there can actually be a foot so tiny ; and if the child be absent , the pretty shoe suffices to place the sweet and fragile creature before her eyes .
She was somewhat aroused by it , knotted her hair upon her ears in order to *deafen* *herself* , and resumed her contemplation , on her knees , of the inanimate object which she had adored for fifteen years .
Oh ! I will writhe on the earth , I will break the stones with my forehead , and I will *damn* *myself* , and I will curse you , Lord , if you keep my child from me ! you see plainly that my arms are all bitten , Lord !
The unhappy woman *flung* *herself* upon that shoe ; her consolation and her despair for so many years , and her vitals were rent with sobs as on the first day ; because , for a mother who has lost her child , it is always the first day .
Thistime , on the contrary , she drew *herself* *upright* with a start , and listened eagerly .
`` They are going to hang a gypsy to  day . '' With the abrupt leap of that spider which we have seen *fling* *itself* upon a fly at the trembling of its web , she rushed to her air  hole , which opened as the reader knows , on the Place de Grve .
A ladder had , in fact , been raised up against the permanent gibbet , and the hangman 's assistant was *busying* *himself* with adjusting the chains which had been rusted by the rain .
But youth had gained the upper hand ; and , as frequently happens , in spite of prognostications and diagnoses , nature had *amused* *herself* by saving the sick man under the physician 's very nose .
Hence , one fine morning , *feeling* *himself* better , he had left his golden spurs with the leech as payment , and had slipped away .
Justice , at that epoch , *troubled* *itself* very little about the clearness and definiteness of a criminal suit .
Superstitious , and not given to devoutness , like every soldier who is only a soldier , when he came to *question* *himself* about this adventure , he did not feel assured as to the goat , as to the singular fashion in which he had met La Esmeralda , as to the no less strange manner in which she had allowed him to divine her love , as to her character as a gypsy , and lastly , as to the surly monk .
Fashionable society of that day hardly knew the name of the victim who passed by at the corner of the street , and it was the populace at the most who *regaled* *themselves* with this coarse fare .
The noble *damsel* *herself* was more charming than ever .
Here Phoebus , whose imagination was endowed with but mediocre power of creation , began to *find* *himself* in a quandary as to a means of *extricating* *himself* for his prowess .
The escort *ranged* *themselves* in line on both sides .
They untied her hands , made her alight , accompanied by her goat , which had also been unbound , and which bleated with joy at *finding* *itself* free : and they made her walk barefoot on the hard pavement to the foot of the steps leading to the door .
She only recovered life and force when she beheld the priest make a sign to her guards to withdraw , and *himself* *advance* alone towards her .
`` Phoebus ! '' she cried wildly , `` can it be you believe it ? '' A monstrous thought had just *presented* *itself* to her .
He was handsome ; he , that orphan , that foundling , that outcast , he *felt* *himself* august and strong , he gazed in the face of that society from which he was banished , and in which he had so powerfully intervened , of that human justice from which he had wrenched its prey , of all those tigers whose jaws were forced to remain empty , of those policemen , those judges , those executioners , of all that force of the king which he , the meanest of creatures , had just broken , with the force of God .
Finally , he made his appearance for the third time upon the summit of the tower where hung the great bell ; from that point he seemed to be showing to the entire city the girl whom he had saved , and his voice of thunder , that voice which was so rarely heard , and which he never *heard* *himself* , repeated thrice with frenzy , even to the clouds : " Sanctuary !
He continued his flight as long as he could see , when he turned round , the turreted enclosure of the University , and the rare houses of the suburb ; but , when , at length , a rise of ground had completely concealed from him that odious Paris , when he could *believe* *himself* to be a hundred leagues distant from it , in the fields , in the desert , he halted , and it seemed to him that he breathed more freely .
He stirred up in the depths of his heart all his hatred , all his malevolence ; and , with the cold glance of a physician who examines a patient , he recognized the fact that this malevolence was nothing but vitiated love ; that love , that source of every virtue in man , turned to horrible things in the heart of a priest , and that a man constituted like himself , in *making* *himself* a priest , *made* *himself* a demon .
There was another moment when , while laughing diabolically at himself , he represented to *himself* *la* Esmeralda as he had seen her on that first day , lively , careless , joyous , gayly attired , dancing , winged , harmonious , and la Esmeralda of the last day , in her scanty shift , with a rope about her neck , mounting slowly with her bare feet , the angular ladder of the gallows ; he figured to himself this double picture in such a manner .that he gave vent to a terrible cry .
Sometimes he flung *himself* *face* downward on the , earth , and tore up the young blades of wheat with his nails .
Towards the hour of sunset , he *examined* *himself* again , and *found* *himself* nearly mad .
He *believed* *himself* to be far away from Paris ; on taking his bearings , he perceived that he had only circled the enclosure of the University .
When he heard the brisk challenge of the men  at  arms of the abbey , around the crenelated , circumscribing wall of Saint  Germain , he turned aside , took a path which *presented* *itself* between the abbey and the lazar  house of the bourg , and at the expiration of a few minutes *found* *himself* on the verge of the Pr  aux  Clercs .
Claude , in the state of hallucination in which he *found* *himself* , believed that he saw , that he saw with his actual eyes , the bell tower of hell ; the thousand lights scattered over the whole height of the terrible tower seemed to him so many porches of the immense interior furnace ; the voices and noises which escaped from it seemed so many shrieks , so many death groans .
After a few strides he *found* *himself* on the Pont Saint  Michel .
Dom Claude had barely time to *fling* *himself* on the ground in order that he might not be met , stared in the face and recognized by his brother .
The crescent of the moon , in her flight upward from the horizon , had paused at the moment , on the summit of the light hand tower , and seemed to have *perched* *itself* , like a luminous bird , on the edge of the balustrade , cut out in black trefoils .
He *flung* *himself* eagerly upon the holy book in the hope of finding some consolation , or some encouragement there .
On reading these gloomy words , he felt that which a blind man feels when he *feels* *himself* pricked by the staff which he has picked up .
He felt so many monstrous vapors pass and *discharge* *themselves* in his brain , that it seemed to him that his head had become one of the chimneys of hell .
All at once , he felt a freshness on his face , and *found* *himself* at the door of the highest gallery .
When she had passed on , he began to descend the staircase again , with the slowness which he had observed in the spectre , *believing* *himself* to be a spectre too , haggard , with hair on end , his extinguished lamp still in his hand ; and as he descended the spiral steps , he distinctly heard in his ear a voice laughing and repeating ,  
She dared not look at him , and she *surrendered* *herself* to her fate .
She saw that she was in Notre  Dame ; she remembered having been torn from the hands of the executioner ; that Phoebus was alive , that Phoebus loved her no longer ; and as these two ideas , one of which shed so much bitterness over the other , *presented* *themselves* simultaneously to the poor condemned girl ; she turned to Quasimodo , who was standing in front of her , and who terrified her ; she said to him ,   `` Why have you saved me ? ''
She made haste to *dress* *herself* .
She *found* *herself* alone once more , meditating upon the singular words of this almost monstrous being , and struck by the sound of his voice , which was so hoarse yet so gentle .
Stay , I have *placed* *myself* behind the wall .
When I *compare* *myself* to you , I feel a very great pity for myself , poor unhappy monster that I am !
An unreasonable explanation , but she *contented* *herself* with it , because she needed to believe that Phoebus still loved her , and loved her alone .
She took care to *dress* *herself* in the morning in the corner of her cell for fear some inhabitants of the neighboring attics might see her through the window .
She often *reproached* *herself* for not feeling a gratitude which should close her eyes , but decidedly , she could not *accustom* *herself* to the poor bellringer .
On another occasion he *presented* *himself* at the door of the cell ( which he never entered ) at the moment when la Esmeralda was singing an old Spanish ballad , the words of which she did not understand , but which had lingered in her ear because the gypsy women had lulled her to sleep with it when she was a little child .
By degrees , however , her terror disappeared , and she *yielded* *herself* wholly to the slow and melancholy air which she was singing . He remained on his knees with hands clasped , as in prayer , attentive , hardly breathing , his gaze riveted upon the gypsy 's brilliant eyes .
He had *placed* *himself* in that position in order to spare the young girl , as far as possible , the displeasure of seeing him .
The young man and the young girl , so far as our deaf man could judge , without hearing a single one of their words , appeared to *abandon* *themselves* to a very tender tte  a  tte .
He made a motion to *fling* *himself* on the captain .
Then he *drew* *himself* up stiffly and said ,   `` Oh ! how happy you are to have some one who loves you ! ''
Moreover , Quasimodo did not *deceive* *himself* on this point .
She *troubled* *herself* very little about it .
He had *reconciled* *himself* to la Esmeralda 's death .
When he heard this news , he *shut* *himself* in his cell in the cloister .
From that window , situated in the cloister , he could see la Esmeralda 's chamber . He often *saw* *herself* with her goat , sometimes with Quasimodo .
He *asked* *himself* what motive could have impelled Quasimodo to save her .
A moment later she felt a touch along her body which made her shudder so that she *straightened* *herself* up in a sitting posture , wide awake and furious .
Almost at the same instant he *felt* *himself* raised by a vigorous arm .
He *flung* *himself* on the arm which held the knife , crying : `` Quasimodo ! '' He forgot , at that moment of distress , that Quasimodo was deaf .
As soon as Pierre Gringoire had seen how this whole affair was turning , and that there would decidedly be the rope , hanging , and other disagreeable things for the principal personages in this comedy , he had not cared to *identify* *himself* with the matter further .
The outcasts with whom he had remained , reflecting that , after all , it was the best company in Paris ,   the outcasts had continued to *interest* *themselves* in behalf of the gypsy .
He also *occupied* *himself* with annotating the fine work of Baudry  le  Rouge , Bishop of Noyon and Tournay , De Cupa Petrarum , which had given him a violent passion for architecture , an inclination which had replaced in his heart his passion for hermeticism , of which it was , moreover , only a natural corollary , since there is an intimate relation between hermeticism and masonry .
`` And who the devil , '' resumed the poet , " has *amused* *himself* with soliciting a decree of reintegration ?
`` I ask nothing better , Dom Claude ; but what if I *entangle* *myself* in some villanous affair ? ''
I do not see why I should *get* *myself* hanged in some one else 's place . "
Jehan , *allow* *yourself* to be punished at the discretion of the master .
The very children were *arming* *themselves* , and there were even cripples in bowls who , in armor and cuirass , made their way between the legs of the drinkers , like great beetles .
`` Be quick ! make haste , *arm* *yourselves* ! we set out on the march in an hour ! '' said Clopin Trouillefou to his thieves .
Have you seen him make *himself* *breathless* on the big bell on a grand Pentecost festival ! ~ Corne du Pre ~ ! it is very fine !
My mother wanted to make an officer of me ; my father , a sub  deacon ; my aunt , a councillor of inquests ; my grandmother , prothonotary to the king ; my great aunt , a treasurer of the short robe ,   and I have *made* *myself* an outcast .
Meanwhile , the vagabonds continued to *arm* *themselves* and whisper at the other end of the dram  shop .
As he *threw* *himself* back on the bosom of the wench beside him , he exclaimed ,  
Comrade ! you have the air of a merchant of tennis  balls ; and you come and *sit* *yourself* beside me !
At the most , he gazed uneasily after Dom Claude when the latter ascended the staircase of the tower ; but the archdeacon had abstained from *presenting* *himself* again before the gypsy 's eyes .
It is probable that this singular procession , which seemed so desirous of *concealing* *itself* under profound darkness , maintained a silence no less profound .
Then his fears returned to him , the idea of an attempt against the gypsy *presented* *itself* once more to his mind .
No boat , no issue !   There was but one thing to be done ; to *allow* *himself* to be killed on the threshold of Notre  Dame , to resist at least until succor arrived , if it should arrive , and not to trouble la Esmeralda 's sleep .
Clopin Trouillefou had *placed* *himself* at the apex with the Duke of Egypt , our friend Jehan , and the most daring of the scavengers .
They *betook* *themselves* to the principal door of the church , ascended the steps , and were soon to be seen squatting under the arch , working at the door with pincers and levers ; a throng of vagabonds followed them to help or look on .
" Throat of God ! are the canons *defending* *themselves* ?
The windows were immediately closed , and the poor bourgeois , who had hardly had time to cast a frightened glance on this scene of gleams and tumult , returned , perspiring with fear to their wives , *asking* *themselves* whether the witches ' sabbath was now being held in the parvis of Notre  Dame , or whether there was an assault of Burgundians , as in ' 64 . Then the husbands thought of theft ; the wives , of rape ; and all trembled .
Evidently , the bishop was *defending* *himself* , and they only battered the door with the more rage , in spite of the stones which cracked skulls right and left .
He had run up and down along the gallery for several minutes like a madman , surveying from above , the compact mass of vagabonds ready to *hurl* *itself* on the church , demanding the safety of the gypsy from the devil or from God .
Thus , as soon as they began to batter the grand door , the shower of rough blocks of stone began to fall , and it seemed to them that the *church* *itself* was being demolished over their heads .
Independently of the projectiles which he had piled upon the balustrade , he had collected a heap of stones on the *platform* *itself* .
All at once , at the moment when they were *grouping* *themselves* round the ram for a last effort , each one holding his breath and stiffening his muscles in order to communicate all his force to the decisive blow , a howl more frightful still than that which had burst forth and expired beneath the beam , rose among them .
`` Churches have been known to *defend* *themselves* thus all by themselves , '' he remarked with a sigh .
At the sight of this line of cuirassed backs , undulating as they rose through the gloom , one would have pronounced it a serpent with steel scales , which was *raising* *itself* erect in front of the church .
He *found* *himself* in the gallery with the formidable bellringer , alone , separated from his companions by a vertical wall eighty feet high .
Jehan had then *concealed* *himself* behind a stone king , not daring to breathe , and fixing upon the monstrous hunchback a frightened gaze , like the man , who , when courting the wife of the guardian of a menagerie , went one evening to a love rendezvous , mistook the wall which he was to climb , and suddenly found *himself* *face* to face with a white bear .
Jehan *prepared* *himself* for a rough shock , but the deaf man remained motionless ; only he had turned towards the scholar and was looking at him .
When the scholar beheld *himself* *disarmed* , stripped , weak , and naked in those terrible hands , he made no attempt to speak to the deaf man , but began to laugh audaciously in his face , and to sing with his intrepid heedlessness of a child of sixteen , the then popular ditty : 
He felt *himself* *lost* amid all this grandeur .
During the king 's absence , several despatches had been placed on his table , and he broke the *seals* *himself* .
At the moment when he finished it , the door opened and gave passage to a new personage , who *precipitated* *himself* into the chamber , crying in affright ,  
He *controlled* *himself* and said with tranquil severity ,  
He rubbed his hands , he laughed with that inward mirth which makes the countenance beam ; he was unable to dissimulate his joy , although he endeavored at moments to *compose* *himself* .
He *corrected* *himself* . `` What is the bailiff 's feudal jurisdiction ? ''
This time he did not *correct* *himself* .
Here he *interrupted* *himself* abruptly , bit his lips as though to take back his thought which had already half escaped , bent his piercing eyes in turn on each of the five persons who surrounded him , and suddenly grasping his hat with both hands and staring full at it , he said to it : `` Oh ! I would burn you if you knew what there was in my head . ''
`` How do you *permit* *yourself* , knave , to go and besiege our friend , monsieur the bailiff of the palace , and what have you to say concerning this popular agitation ? ''
He perceived from the king 's cold and indifferent mien that there was no other resource than something very pathetic , and he *flung* *himself* at the feet of Louis XI . , exclaiming , with gestures of despair :  
I am not the man to *fling* *myself* into those clouds which break out into seditious clamor .
So saying , the unhappy Gringoire kissed the king 's slippers , and Guillaume Rym said to Coppenole in a low tone : " He doth well to *drag* *himself* on the earth .
And without *troubling* *himself* about the Jupiter of Crete , the hosier replied with a heavy smile , and his eyes fixed on Gringoire : " Oh ! that 's it exactly !
The king 's good humor since the revolt against the bailiff had been announced to him , *made* *itself* apparent in every way .
In November , ' 73 , by letters given to Gergeole , we instituted you keeper of the Wood of Vincennes , in the place of Gilbert Acle , equerry ; in ' 75 , gruyer * of the forest of Rouvray  lez  Saint  Cloud , in the place of Jacques le Maire ; in ' 78 , we graciously settled on you , by letters patent sealed doubly with green wax , an income of ten livres parisis , for you and your wife , on the Place of the Merchants , situated at the School Saint  Germain ; in ' 79 , we made you gruyer of the forest of Senart , in place of that poor Jehan Daiz ; then captain of the Chteau of Loches ; then governor of Saint  Quentin ; then captain of the bridge of Meulan , of which you *cause* *yourself* to be called comte .
But Advoyer Scharnachtal *hurled* *himself* on the handsome duke with his battle  club and his people , and when the glittering Burgundian army came in contact with these peasants in bull hides , it flew in pieces like a pane of glass at the blow of a pebble .
Louis XI. returned and *seated* *himself* , saying , with a smile ,   `` Ah ! here they have only got as far as the bailiffs . '' At that instant Olivier le Daim returned .
`` Against you , sire ? ' The aged king rose erect and straight as a young man ,   '' *Explain* *yourself* , Olivier !
Ah ! messieurs , louts of Paris , do you *fling* *yourselves* thus against the crown of France , the sanctity of Notre  Dame , and the peace of this commonwealth !
Here , as though seized with a sudden idea , he *flung* *himself* on his knees before his chair , took off his hat , placed it on the seat , and gazing devoutly at one of the leaden amulets which loaded it down ,
The brave deaf man , assailed on all sides , had lost , if not all courage , at least all hope of saving , not *himself* *(* he was not thinking of himself ) , but the gypsy .
They *defended* *themselves* like desperate men .
Caught on the flank , by the Rue Saint  Pierre  aux  Boeufs , and in the rear through the Rue du Parvis , driven to bay against Notre  Dame , which they still assailed and Quasimodo defended , at the same time besiegers and besieged , they were in the singular situation in which Comte Henri Harcourt , ~ Taurinum obsessor idem et obsessus ~ , as his epitaph says , *found* *himself* later on , at the famous siege of Turin , in 1640 , between Prince Thomas of Savoy , whom he was besieging , and the Marquis de Leganez , who was blockading him .
The king 's cavaliers , in whose midst Phoebus de Chteaupers *bore* *himself* valiantly , gave no quarter , and the slash of the sword disposed of those who escaped the thrust of the lance .
Men , women , children , *hurled* *themselves* on the cruppers and the breasts of the horses , and hung there like cats , with teeth , finger nails and toe nails .
But little by little the first vapors of terror had been dissipated ; from the constantly increasing noise , and from many other signs of reality , she felt *herself* *besieged* not by spectres , but by human beings .
No sooner had he entered than it *rubbed* *itself* gently against his knees , covering the poet with caresses and with white hairs , for it was shedding its hair .
She was obliged to *content* *herself* with this explanation .
She *allowed* *herself* to be led away .
The man was the last to step in . Then he cut the boat 's moorings , pushed it from the shore with a long boat  hook , and , seizing two oars , *seated* *himself* in the bow , rowing with all his might towards midstream .
He took a position in the stern ; and the young girl , whom the stranger inspired with an indefinable uneasiness , *seated* *herself* close to the poet .
But the man in black finally *recovered* *himself* , seized the oars once more and began to row against the current .
Thus she remained for a moment , stunned , watching the water flow past ; when she gradually returned to her senses , she found *herself* *alone* on the wharf with the unknown .
The poor gypsy shivered when she beheld *herself* *alone* with this man .
She had no more resistance left in her , she *allowed* *herself* to be dragged along , running while he walked .
She *tore* *herself* from his hands and fell at the foot of the gibbet , embracing that funereal support , then she half turned her beautiful head , and looked at the priest over her shoulder .
Above all things , do not speak to me of the officer !   I would *cast* *myself* at your knees , I would kiss not your feet , but the earth which is under your feet ; I would sob like a child , I would tear from my breast not words , but my very heart and vitals , to tell you that I love you ;   all would be useless , all !   And yet you have nothing in your heart but what is tender and merciful .
He *flung* *himself* on his knees to receive with adoration the word , possibly a tender one , which was on the point of issuing from her lips .
She *thought* *herself* victorious , and continued ,  
The young girl felt *herself* *seized* suddenly by the elbow .
Panting with terror , she tried to *disengage* *herself* .
The young girl passed her arm through the opening ; the recluse *threw* *herself* on that hand , pressed her lips to it and there remained , buried in that kiss , giving no other sign of life than a sob which heaved her breast from time to time .
The gypsy *threw* *herself* with anguish into the arms of the sacked nun .
*Hide* *yourself* in this corner .
The mother rose quickly and went to *post* *herself* before her window , in order to stop it up .
She had flung the poor gypsy , half dead , into the corner of the cellar , and had *placed* *herself* once more at the window with both hands resting on the angle of the sill like two claws .
Five or six of the provost 's men *armed* *themselves* with picks and crowbars , and Tristan *betook* *himself* , in company with them , towards the window .
The recluse had gone and *seated* *herself* by her daughter , covering her with her body , in front of her , with staring eyes , listening to the poor child , who did not stir , but who kept murmuring in a low voice , these words only , " Phoebus !
She *threw* *herself* upon it , she tried to hold it back ; she scratched the stone with her nails , but the massive block , set in movement by six men , escaped her and glided gently to the ground along the iron levers .
The mother offered no resistance , only she *dragged* *herself* towards her daughter and *threw* *herself* bodily upon her .
Then she *shook* *herself* and shrieked in a loud and heartrending voice : " No ! no !
Without uttering a cry , she raised *herself* *erect* with a terrible expression ; then she *flung* *herself* upon the hand of the executioner , like a beast on its prey , and bit it .
Quasimodo , left alone in that vast Notre  Dame , so besieged and tumultuous but a short time before , once more *betook* *himself* to the cell where the gypsy had slept for so many weeks under his guardianship .
All at once , he crushed his torch under his foot , and , without uttering a word , without giving vent to a sigh , he *flung* *himself* at full speed , head foremost against the wall , and fell fainting on the floor .
When he recovered his senses , he *threw* *himself* on the bed and rolling about , he kissed frantically the place where the young girl had slept and which was still warm ; he remained there for several moments asmotionless as though he were about to expire ; then he rose , dripping with perspiration , panting , mad , and began to beat his head against the wall with the frightful regularity of the clapper of his bells , and the resolution of a man determined to *kill* *himself* .
At length he fell a second time , exhausted ; he *dragged* *himself* on his knees outside the cell , and crouched down facing the door , in an attitude of astonishment .
The bellringer retreated several paces behind the archdeacon , and suddenly *hurling* *himself* upon him with fury , with his huge hands he pushed him by the back over into the abyss over which Dom Claude was leaning .
It was on this retreating angle that miserable archdeacon *exhausted* *himself* .
There he hung , embracing the gutter , hardly breathing , no longer stirring , making no longer any other movements than that mechanical convulsion of the stomach , which one experiences in dreams when one *fancies* *himself* falling .
In the Parvis there were several groups of curious good people , who were tranquilly seeking to divine who the madman could be who was *amusing* *himself* in so strange a manner .
He *stiffened* *himself* upon the spout , pushed against the wall with both his knees , clung to a crevice in the stones with his hands , and succeeded in climbing back with one foot , perhaps ; but this effort made the leaden beak on which he rested bend abruptly .
`` I want neither to stay here nor to be spoken to by you until you 've *introduced* *yourself* . '' `` I meant it for your own good , '' said the stranger and opened the door , this time without being asked .
She was showing an inquisitiveness that really made it seem like she was going senile . `` I want to see Mrs. Grubach ... , '' said K. , making a movement as if *tearing* *himself* away from the two men - even though they were standing well away from him - and wanted to go .
K. *found* *himself* , without intending it , in a mute dialogue with Franz , but then slapped his hand down on his papers and said , `` Here are my identity documents . ''
`` It 's probably exists only in your heads , '' said K. , he wanted , in some way , to insinuate his way into the thoughts of the policemen , to re-shape those thoughts to his benefit or to *make* *himself* at home there .
K. stopped talking with them ; do I , he thought to himself , do I really have to carry on getting tangled up with the chattering of base functionaries like this ? - and they *admit* *themselves* that they are of the lowest position .
If you take our advice , you wo n't *tire* *yourself* out thinking about things to no purpose , you need to *pull* *yourself* together as there 's a lot that 's going to required of you .
He *threw* *himself* down on his bed , and from the dressing table he took the nice apple that he had put there the previous evening for his breakfast .
It puzzled K. , at least it puzzled him looking at it from the policemen 's point of view , that they had made him go into the room and left him alone there , where he had ten different ways of *killing* *himself* .
At the same time , though , he *asked* *himself* , this time looking at it from his own point of view , what reason he could have to do so .
It would have been so pointless to *kill* *himself* that , even if he had wanted to , the pointlessness would have made him unable .
They could watch now , if they wanted , and see how he went over to the cupboard in the wall where he kept a bottle of good schnapps , how he first emptied a glass of it in place of his breakfast and how he then took a second glassful in order to *give* *himself* courage , the last one just as a precaution for the unlikely chance it would be needed .
`` Well that 's alright by me if it makes things go any faster , '' said K. He opened the *wardrobe* *himself* , spent a long time searching through all the clothes , and chose his best black suit which had a short jacket that had greatly surprised those who knew him , then he also pulled out a fresh shirt and began , carefully , to get dressed .
He secretly *told* *himself* that he had succeeded in speeding things up by letting the policemen forget to make him have a bath .
And the three of them did immediately retreat a few steps , the old pair even *found* *themselves* behind the man who then concealed them with the breadth of his body and seemed , going by the movements of his mouth , to be saying something incomprehensible into the distance .
Kaminer got to the hat and K. , as he often had to do at the bank , forcibly *reminded* *himself* that the grin was not deliberate , that he in fact was n't able to grin deliberately .
Kaminer ran to the corner to summon it , and the two others were making obvious efforts to keep K. diverted when Kullich pointed to the doorway of the house on the other side of the street where the large man with the blonde goatee beard appeared and , a little embarrassed at first at *letting* *himself* be seen in his full height , stepped back to the wall and leant against it .
K. was cross with Kullich for pointing out this man whom he had already *seen* *himself* , in fact whom he had been expecting .
This showed that K. was not very attentive , and he resolved to *watch* *himself* more carefully in this respect .
Nonetheless , he gave it no thought as he *twisted* *himself* round and leant over onto the rear shelf of the car to catch sight of the supervisor and the policemen if he could .
In particular , there was nothing to fear from the three bank officials , they had *immersed* *themselves* back into their paperwork and there was no alteration to be seen in them .
If I had got up as soon as I was awake without *letting* *myself* get confused because Anna was n't there , if I 'd got up and paid no regard to anyone who might have been in my way and come straight to you , if I 'd done something like having my breakfast in the kitchen as an exception , asked you to bring my clothes from my room , in short , if I had behaved sensibly then nothing more would have happened , everything that was waiting to happen would have been stifled .
In the bank , for example , I am well prepared , nothing of this sort could possibly happen to me there , I have my own assistant there , there are telephones for internal and external calls in front of me on the desk , I continually receive visits from people , representatives , officials , but besides that , and most importantly , I 'm always occupied with my work , that 's to say I 'm always alert , it would even be a pleasure for me to find *myself* *faced* with something of that sort .
`` That 's how young people are ! '' said Mrs. Grubach in to *excuse* *herself* .
`` It is odd , '' said Miss Brstner , `` that I 'm forced to forbid you to do something that you ought to have *forbidden* *yourself* to do , namely to come into my room when I 'm not here . ''
`` What 's too vague ? '' asked K. Then he *remembered* *himself* and asked , `` Would you like me to show you what it was like ? '' He wanted to move in some way but did not want to leave .
Ah yes , I 'm *forgetting* *myself* , the most important person of all , so I 'm standing here in front of the table. the supervisor is sitting extremely comfortably with his legs crossed and his arm hanging over the backrest here like some layabout .
K. was too engrossed in his role and slowly called out , `` Josef K. ! . '' It was not as loud as he had threatened , but nonetheless , once he had suddenly called it out , the cry seemed gradually to *spread* *itself* all round the room .
He had hardly *pulled* *himself* together when he jumped over to Miss Brstner and took her hand .
But when he reached the door he came to a halt as if he had n't expected to find a door there , Miss Brstner made use of that moment to *get* *herself* free , open the door , slip out into the hallway and gently say to K. from there , " Now , come along , please .
He would be given the number of the building where he was to *present* *himself* , which was in a street in a suburb well away from the city centre which K. had never been to before .
He was only speaking at the side of the telephone receiver while he waited for his connection , but in giving this invitation the deputy director was *humbling* *himself* .
K. *forced* *himself* to answer , but his thoughts were mainly about that Sunday , how it would be best to get there for nine o 'clock in the morning as that was the time that courts always start work on weekdays .
All of them seemed to be looking at him , surprised at seeing their superior running ; it was a kind of pride that made K. want to go on foot , this was his affair and the idea of any help from strangers , however slight , was repulsive to him , he also wanted to avoid asking for anyone 's help because that would initiate them into the affair even if only slightly . And after all , he had no wish at all to *humiliate* *himself* before the committee by being too punctual .
It was usually a woman who opened the door , heard the enquiry and turned to somebody in the room who would *raise* *himself* from the bed .
There were many who thought it must be very important for K. to find Lanz the joiner and thought long about it , naming a joiner who was not called Lanz or giving a name that had some vague similarity with Lanz , or they asked neighbours or accompanied K. to a door a long way away where they thought someone of that sort might live in the back part of the building or where someone would be who could advise K. better than they *could* *themselves* .
He passed through between two men who were talking beside the door - one of them held both hands far out in front of *himself* *making* the movements of counting out money , the other looked him closely in the eyes - and someone took him by the hand . It was a small , red-faced youth .
K. *let* *himself* be led by him , and it turned out that there was - surprisingly in a densely packed crowd of people moving to and fro - a narrow passage which may have been the division between two factions ; this idea was reinforced by the fact that in the first few rows to the left and the right of him there was hardly any face looking in his direction , he saw nothing but the backs of people directing their speech and their movements only towards members of their own side .
Many of them had brought pillows that they had put between their heads and the ceiling so that they would not *hurt* *themselves* pressed against it .
K. had decided he would do more watching than talking , so he did not *defend* *himself* for supposedly having come late , and simply said , `` Well maybe I have arrived late , I 'm here now . '' There followed loud applause , once more from the right hand side of the hall .
This reply was followed by laughter among the right hand faction down in the hall , it was so hearty that K. could n't *stop* *himself* joining in with it .
The people *supported* *themselves* with their hands on their knees and shook as if suffering a serious attack of coughing .
The judge had become quite cross but seemed to have no power over those below him in the hall , he tried to reduce what harm had been done in the gallery and jumped up threatening them , his eyebrows , until then hardly remarkable , *pushed* *themselves* up and became big , black and bushy over his eyes .
In fact he had done more than that and brought three junior employees from the bank where I work into the lady 's room ; they had *made* *themselves* busy interfering with some photographs that belonged to the lady and causing a mess .
K. could only see that a man had pulled her into a corner by the door and was *pressing* *himself* against her .
`` So , '' called out K , throwing his arms in the air as if this sudden realisation needed more room , " all of you are working for this organisation , I see now that you are all the very bunch of cheats and liars I 've just been speaking about , you 've all *pressed* *yourselves* in here in order to listen in and snoop on me , you gave the impression of having formed into factions , one of you even applauded me to test me out , and you wanted to learn how to trap an innocent man !
Well , I hope you have n't come here for nothing , I hope you 've either had some fun from someone who expected you to defend his innocence or else - let go of me or I 'll hit you , `` shouted K. to a quivery old man who had *pressed* *himself* especially close to him - '' or else that you 've actually learned something .
`` I merely wanted to draw your attention , '' said the judge , `` to something you seem not yet to be aware of : today , you have *robbed* *yourself* of the advantages that a hearing of this sort always gives to someone who is under arrest . ''
" Could you really do that without *placing* *yourself* in danger ?
So that 's what all this is about , thought K. , she 's *offering* *herself* to me , she 's as degenerate as everything else around here , she 's had enough of the court officials , which is understandable I suppose , and so she approaches any stranger and makes compliments about his eyes .
And what 's more , I expect they have already *noticed* *themselves* , or even if they have n't , this affair is really not so important to me as they think .
She suddenly *interrupted* *herself* and lay her hand on K. 's as if she wanted to calm him down , and whispered , `` Be quiet , Berthold is watching us . ''
In the doorway to the courtroom stood a young man , he was short , his legs were not quite straight , and he continually moved his finger round in a short , thin , red beard with which he hoped to *make* *himself* look dignified .
The student briefly looked away from the woman to glance at K. over his shoulder but did *allow* *himself* to be disturbed , in fact he even *pressed* *himself* close to the woman and put his arms around her .
What a position it was that K. *found* *himself* in , compared with the judge sitting up in the attic ! K. , at the bank , had a big office with an ante-room , and had an enormous window through which he could look down at the activity in the square .
`` Does your wife , then , not share some of the responsibility ? '' asked K. He had to *force* *himself* as he asked this question , as he , too , felt so jealous now .
It was her who *attached* *herself* to him .
In the meantime , the man whom K. had first approached had *pulled* *himself* together and even answered him with a smile .
K. did n't *concern* *himself* long with the guard or these people , especially as he saw a turning off the corridor , about half way along it on the right hand side , where there was no door to stop him going that way .
K. had still not looked round at anything at all in the room where he *found* *himself* , and it was only when one of the many wooden doors all around him opened that he noticed it .
The young woman smiled too , but lightly tapped the man 's arm with the tips of her fingers as if he had *allowed* *himself* too much fun with K.
K. just did not feel like contradicting him .. The girl 's intention may have been good , perhaps she was under instructions to distract him or to give him the chance to *collect* *himself* , but the attempt had not worked .
He did not quite reject the idea that he should see a doctor the next time he had the chance , but whatever he did - and this was something on which he could *advise* *himself* - he wanted to spend all Sunday mornings in future better than he had spent this one .
" I kept *asking* *myself* why it was that Mr. K. took such an interest in Miss Brstner .
He *contented* *himself* with merely drinking his coffee and letting Mrs. Grubach feel that she was superfluous .
She would have *come* *herself* , but she 's feeling a little unwell today .
Moreover , it was only yesterday , and only very briefly , that she made it clear to me that such a meeting could be of no benefit for yourself either , she feels that it can only have been a matter of chance that such an idea came to you , and that even without any explanations from her , you will very soon come to *realise* *yourself* , if you have not done so already , the futility of your idea .
One evening , a few days later , K. was walking along one of the corridors that separated his office from the main stairway - he was nearly the last one to leave for home that evening , there remained only a couple of workers in the light of a single bulb in the dispatch department - when he heard a sigh from behind a door which he *had* *himself* never opened but which he had always thought just led into a junk room . He stood in amazement and listened again to establish whether he might not be mistaken .
`` Do n't listen to him , '' said Willem , *interrupting* *himself* only to quickly bring his hand to his mouth when it had received a stroke of the cane , " we 're only being punished because you made a complaint against us .
Both of us , me especially , we 'd proved our worth as good police officers over a long period - you 've got to *admit* *yourself* that as far as official work was concerned we did the job well - things looked good for us , we had prospects , it 's quite certain that we would 've been made whip-men too , like this one , only he had the luck not to have anyone make a complaint about him , as you really do n't get many complaints like that .
`` Do n't shout like that ! , '' called out K. , unable to *prevent* *himself* , and , as he looked anxiously in the direction from which the servitor would come , he gave Franz a shove , not hard , but hard enough for him to fall down unconscious , clawing at the ground with his hands by reflex ; he still did not avoid being hit ; the rod still found him on the floor ; the tip of the rod swang regularly up and down while he rolled to and fro under its blows .
If that had been his intention then it would almost have been easier , K. would have taken his own clothes off and *offered* *himself* to the whip-man in the policemen 's place .
He was no longer in any position to help anyone , and the servitors would soon be back ; he did , though , *promise* *himself* that he would raise the matter again with somebody and see that , as far as it was in his power , those who really were guilty , the high officials whom nobody had so far dared point out to him , received their due punishment .
`` What 's this that I 've been hearing , Josef ? '' cried K. 's uncle when they were alone , as he sat on the table shoving various papers under himself without looking at them to *make* *himself* more comfortable .
`` Uncle Karl , '' said K. , *wrenching* *himself* back from his daydreaming , `` I really do n't know what it is you want of me . ''
He would have liked to have been of some help to the chief *clerk* *himself* , as the chief clerk was a gentleman , good and honest , but he did not know what it was he could do and merely hoped there would be some influential gentlemen who would take his side .
`` Josef , '' called his uncle trying to *disentangle* *himself* from him so that he could stop walking , but K. did not let go , " you 've completely changed , you used to be so astute , are you losing it now ?
Josef , *pull* *yourself* together .
K. *himself* *looked* on calmly , he was not even disappointed at finding the lawyer unwell , he had been able to do nothing to oppose the enthusiasm his uncle had developed for the matter , he was glad that this enthusiasm had now been distracted without his having to do anything about it .
Fortunately , though , behind the girl , the invalid *raised* *himself* up , K. 's uncle made an ugly face as if swallowing something disgusting and then , somewhat calmer , said , " We have naturally not lost our senses , not yet ; if what I am asking for were not possible I would not be asking for it .
And he *twisted* *himself* round as if wanting to go into no more negotiations but *giving* *himself* a little more time to think .
He *interrupted* *himself* , whispered , `` I bet you she 's listening ! '' and sprang over to the door .
But in a tone that was much more committed he went on , " As far as your nephew 's affairs are concerned , this will be an extremely difficult undertaking and I 'd *count* *myself* lucky if my strength lasted out long enough for it ; I 'm greatly afraid it wo n't do , but anyway I do n't want to leave anything untried ; if I do n't last out you can always get somebody else .
To be honest , this matters interests me too much , and I ca n't *bring* *myself* to give up the chance of taking some part in it .
`` But you work in the High Court , not that court in the attic , '' he had wanted to say but could not *bring* *himself* to actually utter it .
`` I 'm afraid I 'll only be able to stay a few minutes more , '' smiled the office director as he *spread* *himself* out in the armchair and looked at the clock .
He had hardly stepped into the hallway , finding his bearings in the darkness with his hand still firmly holding the door , when another small hand , much smaller than K. 's own , *placed* *itself* on his and gently shut the door .
But despite that , he *had* *himself* made to look bigger in the picture as he 's madly vain , just like everyone round here .
`` Just an examining judge once again , '' said K. in disappointment , " the senior officials *keep* *themselves* hidden .
`` I 'd be saying too much if I told you that , '' answered Leni . " Please do n't ask for names , but do stop making these mistakes of yours , stop being so unyielding , there 's nothing you can do to *defend* *yourself* from this court , you have to confess .
`` That 's alright , then , '' she said , and *made* *herself* comfortable on his lap by smoothing out her skirt and adjusting her blouse .
Would she be capable of *sacrificing* *herself* for you , though ? "
`` No , '' said K. , " she is n't gentle or friendly , and nor would she be capable of *sacrificing* *herself* for me .
Eventually we could n't keep up the pretence any longer , but these are polite and highly capable men , they did n't say anything about it so as to spare my feelings but in the end not even they could continue to *force* *themselves* and , as they could n't speak about the matter in hand , they became silent .
And , of course , there 's no way of *defending* *yourself* from this , something said in private is indeed in private and can not then be used in public , it 's not something that makes it easy for the defence to keep those gentlemen 's favour .
Bearing all this in mind , does it still surprise K. that the officials are irritated and often *express* *themselves* about the litigants in unflattering ways - which is an experience shared by everyone . All the officials are irritated , even when they appear calm .
One lawyer after another was sent out to run up the steps and *let* *himself* be thrown down again , offering what resistance he could as long as it was passive resistance , and his colleagues would catch him at the bottom of the steps .
Even if it were possible to improve any detail of it - which is anyway no more than superstitious nonsense - the best that they could achieve , although *doing* *themselves* incalculable harm in the process , is that they will have attracted the special attention of the officials for any case that comes up in the future , and the officials are always ready to seek revenge .
Client and trial are both simply taken away from the lawyer ; and then even contact with the court officials wo n't help , however good they are , as they do n't know *anything* *themselves* .
It was much better not to give away any details before their time , as in that way K. could only be influenced unfavourably and his hopes might be raised or he might be made too anxious , better just to say that some individuals have spoken very favourably and *shown* *themselves* very willing to help , although others have spoken less favourably , but even they have not in any way refused to help .
Maybe everything the lawyer said was quite right , even though he obviously wanted to *make* *himself* as conspicuous as possible and probably had never even taken on a case as important as he said K. 's was .
On winter 's mornings such as this , when he was very tired and everything *dragged* *itself* lethargically through his head , this belief of his seemed irrefutable .
But now , his uncle had already dragged him to see the lawyer , he had to take account of his family ; his job was no longer totally separate from the progress of the trial , he himself had carelessly - with a certain , inexplicable complacency - mentioned it to acquaintances and others had learned about it in ways he did not know , his relationship with Miss Brstner seemed to be in trouble because of it . In short , he no longer had any choice whether he would accept the trial or turn it down , he was in the middle of it and had to *defend* *himself* .
He had been capable of *working* *himself* up to his high position in the bank in a relatively short time and to retain it with respect from everyone , now he simply had to apply some of the talents that had made that possible for him to the trial , and there was no doubt that it had to turn out well .
The lawyer had told him , as he talked to him , that that was something unheard of and would probably do him a great deal of harm , but K. could not tolerate any impediment to his efforts where his trial was concerned , and these impediments were probably caused by the *lawyer* *himself* .
And K. had indeed , at first , been closely following what the manufacturer was saying , he too was aware of how important the deal was , but unfortunately it did not last , he soon stopped listening , nodded at each of the manufacturer 's louder exclamations for a short while , but eventually he stopped doing even that and did no more than stare at the bald head bent over the papers , *asking* *himself* when the manufacturer would finally realise that everything he was saying was useless .
Carefully and slowly turning his eyes upwards , he tried to learn what was taking place above him , took one of the papers from his desk without looking to see what it was , lay it on the flat of his hand and raised it slowly up as he rose up to the level of the two *men* *himself* .
K. still had enough control of himself to turn away from the deputy director and direct his friendly , albeit stiff , smile only at the manufacturer , he made no other retaliation , bent down slightly and *supported* *himself* with both hands on his desk like a clerk , and watched as the two gentlemen , still talking , took the papers from his desk and disappeared into the manager 's office .
Now , in contrast , if he was to conduct his defence himself , he would have to *devote* *himself* entirely to the court - for the time being , at least - success would mean , later on , his complete and conclusive liberation , but if he was to achieve this he would have to *place* *himself* , to start with , in far greater danger than he had been in so far .
Did a carefully worked out defence - and any other sort would have made no sense - did a carefully worked out defence not also mean he would need to *shut* *himself* off from everything else as much as he could ?
It was true that he was well disposed towards K. , and as soon as he heard about the trial he would probably try to do everything he could to make it easier for him , but he would certainly not *devote* *himself* to it . K. at one time had provided the counter-balance to what the deputy director said but the director was now coming more and more under his influence , and the deputy director would also exploit the weakened condition of the director to strengthen his own power .
Maybe considerations of this sort weakened his power of resistance , but it was still necessary not to *deceive* *oneself* and to see everything as clearly as it could be seen at that moment .
You 're nearly a *lawyer* *yourself* .
And just now , just when he would have to act with all the strength he could muster , now a number of doubts of a sort he had never before known had *presented* *themselves* and affected his own vigilance !
Now , at least , he *found* *himself* quite unable to understand how he could have intended to write to Titorelli and invite him into the bank .
You 've already *seen* *yourselves* how long I 've been delayed .
`` Paint your portrait ? '' she asked , opening her mouth too wide and lightly hitting K. with her hand as if he had said something extraordinarily surprising or clumsy , with both hands she lifted her skirt , which was already very short , and , as fast as she could , she ran off after the other girls whose indistinct shouts *lost* *themselves* in the heights .
They stood on both sides of the stairs , *pressing* *themselves* against the wall so that K. could get through between them , and smoothed their aprons down with their hands .
Then he shut the door , bowed once more to K. , offered him his hand and *introduced* *himself* , saying , `` Titorelli , painter . '' K. pointed to the door , behind which the girls were whispering , and said , `` You seem to be very popular in this building . ''
This impression was augmented by the painter 's asking , `` Were you wanting to buy some pictures or did you want to *have* *yourself* painted ? ''
At first K. was about to say , `` He certainly is a judge , '' but he *held* *himself* back for the time being and went closer to the picture as if he wanted to study it in detail .
" And he has *himself* *painted* in such a grand pose ?
`` Yeah , gentlemen like this are very vain , '' said the painter . " But they have permission from higher up to *get* *themselves* painted like this .
K. found the painter 's work more engrossing than he had wanted ; but finally he *reproached* *himself* for staying so long without having done anything relevant to his own affair .
K. forewent the opportunity to *excuse* *himself* in some way as he did not wish to distract the painter from what he was saying , or else perhaps he did n't want him to get too far above himself and in this way *make* *himself* to some extent unattainable , so he asked , `` Is that a publicly acknowledged position ? ''
The painter even seemed to misunderstand why K. remained at the edge of the bed and urged K. to *make* *himself* comfortable , and as he hesitated he went over to the bed himself and pressed K. deep down into the bedclothes and pillows .
If I painted all the judges next to each other here on canvas , and you were trying to *defend* *yourself* in front of it , you 'd have more success with them than you 'd ever have with the real court . "
`` How do you intend to do that ? '' asked K. `` You did *say* *yourself* not long ago that it 's quite impossible to go to the court with reasons and proofs . ''
`` Only impossible for reasons and proofs you take to the *court* *yourself* '' said the painter , raising his forefinger as if K. had failed to notice a fine distinction .
The painter did not *let* *himself* be distracted , but said , `` In your case , for instance , as you 're totally innocent , this is what I 'll do . ''
But despite these doubts K. *forced* *himself* not to interrupt the painter .
At first , K. was astonished at this orderly explanation , but then , just as quietly as the painter , he said , `` I think you 're *contradicting* *yourself* . ''
This smile made K. feel as if he were examining not the words of the painter but seeking out inconsistencies in the procedures of the *court* *itself* .
When I was a boy I used to listen closely to my father when he told us about court cases at home , and the judges that came to his studio talked about the court , in our circles nobody talks about anything else ; I hardly ever got the chance to go to *court* *myself* but always made use of it when I could , I 've listened to countless trials at important stages in their development , I 've followed them closely as far as they could be followed , and I have to say that I 've never seen a single acquittal . "
He had *prepared* *himself* even for the fog that he would breathe in through his open mouth .
The painter had leant back and *spread* *himself* out in his chair , his nightshirt was wide open , he had pushed his hand inside and was stroking his breast and his sides .
K. placed his hand on his winter overcoat but could not *bring* *himself* to put it on .
K. *expressed* *himself* in this curt way without any thought , so he was glad when the painter did not take this amiss and picked up a second painting from the floor .
They had clearly seen that the second door of the studio had been opened and had gone around to *impose* *themselves* on him from this side .
Someone unlocked the door , but kept *himself* *pressed* against it as he called back inside , `` It 's him ! , '' and only then did he open the door properly .
`` Block . I 'm a businessman , '' said the small man , *twisting* *himself* round as he thus *introduced* *himself* , although K. did not allow him to stop moving .
He *felt* *himself* as much at liberty as is normally only felt in foreign parts when speaking with people of lower standing , keeping everything about himself to himself , speaking only casually about the interests of the other , able to raise him to a level above one 's own , but also able , at will , to let him drop again .
`` So you 're also working at the *court* *yourself* ? '' asked K. `` That 's just what I want to learn more about . ''
You *know* *yourself* what the air is like in those offices . "
`` I expect I 'll have to go there quite often *myself* *now* , '' said K. , " although I can hardly expect to be shown the same respect as I was then .
I repeat that all this is just a ridiculous superstition , and in most cases it 's completely disproved by the facts , but when you live in that society it 's hard to *hold* *yourself* back from beliefs like that .
He told us all later he thought he could see something in your lips that meant he 'd be *convicted* *himself* . "
`` On my lips ? '' asked K. , pulling out a pocket mirror and *examining* *himself* . " I can see nothing special about my lips .
`` Do you then have that much contact with each other , exchanging each other 's opinions ? '' said K. `` I 've *kept* *myself* completely apart so far . ''
`` Waiting is not pointless , '' said the businessman , " it 's only pointless if you try and *interfere* *yourself* .
Most of all , there was lots of Latin , which I ca n't understand , then pages and pages of general appeals to the court , then lots of flattery for particular officials , they were n't named , these officials , but anyone familiar with the court must have been able to guess who they were , then there was self-praise by the lawyer where he *humiliated* *himself* to the court in a way that was downright dog-like , and then endless investigations of cases from the past which were supposed to be similar to mine .
It 's best if you do n't *let* *yourself* be misled in that way .
She *attaches* *herself* to each of them , loves each of them , even seems to be loved by each of them ; then she sometimes entertains me by telling me about them when I allow her to .
The lawyer must have noticed that K. was offering him more resistance than before , as he became silent , giving K. the chance to *speak* *himself* , and then , as K. also remained silent , he asked , `` Did you have a particular reason for coming to see me today ? ''
`` Do I understand you rightly ? '' asked the lawyer as he half *raised* *himself* in his bed and *supported* *himself* with one hand on the pillow .
It was very unwelcome for K. to hear the old man speak in this touching way , as it forced him to *explain* *himself* more fully , which he would rather have avoided , and he was aware that it also confused him even though it could never make him reverse his decision .
I would naturally never attempt , considering that you are so much older and more experienced than I am , to convince you of my opinion ; if I have ever unintentionally done so then I beg your forgiveness , but , as you have just *said* *yourself* , the circumstances are important enough and it is my belief that my trial needs to be approached with much more vigour than has so far been the case . "
How the lawyer was *humiliating* *himself* to K. !
Was it something personal for his uncle 's sake , or did he really see K. 's case as one that was exceptional and hoped to be able to *distinguish* *himself* with it , either for K. 's sake or - and this possibility could never be excluded - for his friends at the court ?
But despite that I do n't regret my decision , quite possibly I should have turned more cases away than I did , but it did turn out to be entirely necessary for me to *devote* *myself* fully to the cases I did take on , and the successful results showed that it was worth it .
K. could have encouraged to enter , but he had decided to make a final break not only with the lawyer but with everything in his home , so he *kept* *himself* motionless .
`` I will , '' said Block , as if speaking to himself to *give* *himself* courage , and with a quick glance to the side he kneeled down close beside the bed .
In the silence while he did so , Leni , as she *freed* *herself* from K. 's hands , said , " You 're hurting me .
What do you think he 'd say if he learned his trial still has n't begun , if you told him they have n't even rung the bell to announce the start of proceedings ? ' Alright Block , alright , " said the lawyer , as at these words Block had begun to *raise* *himself* on his trembling knees and clearly wanted to plead for some explanation .
When he spoke very calmly he understood almost everything , but that was very infrequent , mostly the words gushed from his mouth and he seemed to be *enjoying* *himself* so much his head shook .
K. began to anticipate many difficulties , he gave up trying to understand what the Italian said - with the director there , who could understand him so easily , it would have been pointless effort - and for the time being did no more than scowl at the Italian as he relaxed sitting deep but comfortable in the armchair , as he frequently pulled at his short , sharply tailored jacket and at one time lifted his arms in the air and moved his hands freely to try and depict something that K. could not grasp , even though he was leaning forward and did not let the hands out of his sight . K. had nothing to *occupy* *himself* but mechanically watch the exchange between the two men and his tiredness finally *made* *itself* felt , to his alarm , although fortunately in good time , he once *caught* *himself* nearly getting up , turning round and leaving .
Eventually the Italian looked at the clock and jumped up . After taking his leave from the director he turned to K. , *pressing* *himself* so close to him that K. had to push his chair back just so that he could move .
As he was tired he wanted to sit down , he went back inside the cathedral , he found something like a small carpet on one of the steps , he moved it with his foot to a nearby pew , *wrapped* *himself* up tighter in his coat , put the collar up and sat down .
It was discourteous of the Italian not to come but it was also sensible of him , there would have been nothing to see , they would have had to *content* *themselves* with seeking out a few pictures with K. 's electric pocket torch and looking at them one small part at a time .
But under the pulpit - K. grinned in astonishment - there really was a priest standing with his hand on the handrail ready to climb the steps and looking at K. Then he nodded very slightly , so that K. *crossed* *himself* and genuflected as he should have done earlier .
`` Yes , '' said K. , he considered how freely he had always given his name in the past , for some time now it had been a burden to him , now there were people who knew his name whom he had never seen before , it had been so nice first to *introduce* *yourself* and only then for people to know who you were .
If the priest knew of such a possibility he might , if K. asked him , let him know about it , even though he was part of the *court* *himself* and even though , when K. had criticised the court , he had held down his gentle nature and actually shouted at K.
`` Do n't *fool* *yourself* , '' said the priest .
`` You *fool* *yourself* in the court , '' said the priest , " it talks about this self-deceit in the opening paragraphs to the law . In front of the law there is a doorkeeper .
They see his ideas of what 's inside the law as rather childish , and suppose he 's *afraid* *himself* of what he wants to make the man frightened of .
There would be nothing heroic about it if he resisted , if he now caused trouble for these gentlemen , if in *defending* *himself* he sought to enjoy his last glimmer of life .
He started walking , which pleased the gentlemen and some of their pleasure *conveyed* *itself* to him .
The moonlight glittered and quivered in the water , which *divided* *itself* around a small island covered in a densely-piled mass of foliage and trees and bushes .
Beneath them , now invisible , there were gravel paths with comfortable benches where K. had *stretched* *himself* out on many summer 's days .
In this way they quickly left the built up area and *found* *themselves* in the fields which , in this part of town , began almost without any transition zone .
One morning , when Gregor Samsa woke from troubled dreams , he found *himself* *transformed* in his bed into a horrible vermin .
However hard he *threw* *himself* onto his right , he always rolled back to where he was .
He felt a slight itch up on his belly ; *pushed* *himself* slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better ; found where the itch was , and saw that it was covered with lots of little white spots which he did n't know what to make of ; and when he tried to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder .
Gregor had wanted to give a full answer and explain everything , but in the circumstances *contented* *himself* with saying : `` Yes , mother , yes , thank-you , I 'm getting up now . ''
He remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in bed , perhaps caused by lying awkwardly , but that had always turned out to be pure imagination and he wondered how his imaginings would slowly *resolve* *themselves* today .
It was a simple matter to throw off the covers ; he only had to *blow* *himself* up a little and they fell off by themselves .
He would have used his arms and his hands to *push* *himself* up ; but instead of them he only had all those little legs continuously moving in different directions , and which he was moreover unable to control .
If he wanted to bend one of them , then that was the first one that would *stretch* *itself* out ; and if he finally managed to do what he wanted with that leg , all the others seemed to be set free and would move about painfully .
The first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body out of the bed , but he had never seen this lower part , and could not imagine what it looked like ; it turned out to be too hard to move ; it went so slowly ; and finally , almost in a frenzy , when he carelessly *shoved* *himself* forwards with all the force he could gather , he chose the wrong direction , hit hard against the lower bedpost , and learned from the burning pain he felt that the lower part of his body might well , at present , be the most sensitive .
But when he had at last got his head out of the bed and into the fresh air it occurred to him that if he *let* *himself* fall it would be a miracle if his head were not injured , so he became afraid to carry on *pushing* *himself* forward the same way .
And he could not *knock* *himself* out now at any price ; better to stay in bed than lose consciousness .
It took just as much effort to get back to where he had been earlier , but when he lay there sighing , and was once more watching his legs as they struggled against each other even harder than before , if that was possible , he could think of no way of bringing peace and order to this chaos . He *told* *himself* once more that it was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible thing to do would be to get free of it in whatever way he could at whatever sacrifice .
At the same time , though , he did not forget to *remind* *himself* that calm consideration was much better than rushing to desperate conclusions .
And so he *set* *himself* to the task of swinging the entire length of his body out of the bed all at the same time .
Was it really not enough to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were even necessary - did the chief clerk have to *come* *himself* , and did they have to show the whole , innocent family that this was so suspicious that only the chief clerk could be trusted to have the wisdom to investigate it ?
And more because these thoughts had made him upset than through any proper decision , he *swang* *himself* with all his force out of the bed .
You *barricade* *yourself* in your room , give us no more than yes or no for an answer , you are causing serious and unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and I mention this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in a way that is quite unheard of .
And while Gregor gushed out these words , hardly knowing what he was saying , he made his way over to the chest of drawers - this was easily done , probably because of the practise he had already had in bed - where he now tried to *get* *himself* upright .
The first few times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just slid down again , but he finally *gave* *himself* one last swing and stood there upright ; the lower part of his body was in serious pain but he no longer gave any attention to it .
Now he *let* *himself* fall against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of it with his little legs .
Gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair . Once there he let go of it and *threw* *himself* onto the door , *holding* *himself* upright against it using the adhesive on the tips of his legs .
He rested there a little while to recover from the effort involved and then *set* *himself* to the task of turning the key in the lock with his mouth .
And with the idea that they were all excitedly following his efforts , he bit on the key with all his strength , paying no attention to the pain he was *causing* *himself* .
As the key turned round he turned around the lock with it , only *holding* *himself* upright with his mouth , and hung onto the key or pushed it down again with the whole weight of his body as needed .
He had first to slowly *turn* *himself* around one of the double doors , and he had to do it very carefully if he did not want to fall flat on his back before entering the room .
Gregor 's mother , her hair still dishevelled from bed despite the chief clerk 's being there , looked at his father . Then she unfolded her arms , took two steps forward towards Gregor and sank down onto the floor into her skirts that *spread* *themselves* out around her as her head disappeared down onto her breast .
But you , sir , you have a better overview than the rest of the staff , in fact , if I can say this in confidence , a better overview than the *boss* *himself* - it 's very easy for a businessman like him to make mistakes about his employees and judge them more harshly than he should .
And you 're also well aware that we travellers spend almost the whole year away from the office , so that we can very easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints , and it 's almost impossible to *defend* *yourself* from that sort of thing , we do n't usually even hear about them , or if at all it 's when we arrive back home exhausted from a trip , and that 's when we feel the harmful effects of what 's been going on without even knowing what caused them .
But his sister was not there , Gregor would have to do the *job* *himself* .
And without considering that he still was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present state , or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - be understood , he let go of the door ; *pushed* *himself* through the opening ; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who , ridiculously , was holding on to the banister with both hands ; but Gregor fell immediately over and , with a little scream as he sought something to hold onto , landed on his numerous little legs .
He had completely forgotten the chief clerk for the moment , but could not *help* *himself* snapping in the air with his jaws at the sight of the flow of coffee .
Eventually , though , Gregor realised that he had no choice as he saw , to his disgust , that he was quite incapable of going backwards in a straight line ; so he began , as quickly as possible and with frequent anxious glances at his father , to *turn* *himself* round .
When he had nearly finished turning round , still listening to that hissing , he made a mistake and *turned* *himself* back a little the way he had just come .
Nor would he ever have allowed Gregor the time to *get* *himself* upright as preparation for getting through the doorway .
What he did , making more noise than ever , was to drive Gregor forwards all the harder as if there had been nothing in the way ; it sounded to Gregor as if there was now more than one father behind him ; it was not a pleasant experience , and Gregor *pushed* *himself* into the doorway without regard for what might happen .
One side of his body *lifted* *itself* , he lay at an angle in the doorway , one flank scraped on the white door and was painfully injured , leaving vile brown flecks on it , soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all by himself , the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the ground . Then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which released him from where he was held and sent him flying , and heavily bleeding , deep into his room .
He *pushed* *himself* over to the door , feeling his way clumsily with his antennae - of which he was now beginning to learn the value - in order to see what had been happening there .
If she did n't do it herself he would rather go hungry than draw her attention to it , although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the couch , *throw* *himself* at his sister 's feet and beg her for something good to eat .
She had hardly turned her back before Gregor came out again from under the couch and *stretched* *himself* .
When explaining things , his father *repeated* *himself* several times , partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with these matters himself and partly because Gregor 's mother did not understand everything the first time . From these repeated explanations Gregor learned , to his pleasure , that despite all their misfortunes there was still some money available from the old days .
He could actually have used this surplus money to reduce his father 's debt to his boss , and the day when he could have *freed* *himself* from that job would have come much closer , but now it was certainly better the way his father had done things .
Whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money , Gregor would always first let go of the door and then *throw* *himself* onto the cool , leather sofa next to it , as he became quite hot with shame and regret .
Gregor went straight to *hide* *himself* under the couch , of course , but he had to wait until midday before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than usual .
If she did not think this sheet was necessary then all she had to do was take it off again , as it was clear enough that it was no pleasure for Gregor to *cut* *himself* off so completely . She left the sheet where it was .
For the first fourteen days , Gregor 's parents could not *bring* *themselves* to come into the room to see him . He would often hear them say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing even though , before , they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat useless and frequently been annoyed with her .
Out of consideration for his parents , Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day , the few square meters of the floor did not give him much room to crawl about , it was hard to just lie quietly through the night , his food soon stopped giving him any pleasure at all , and so , to *entertain* *himself* , he got into the habit of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling .
Very soon his sister noticed Gregor 's new way of *entertaining* *himself* - he had , after all , left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about - and got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him by removing the furniture that got in his way , especially the chest of drawers and the desk .
The old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair of feeble women to be heaving about , but Gregor listened as they pushed it from its place , his sister always taking on the heaviest part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother 's warnings that she would *strain* *herself* .
Gregor kept trying to *assure* *himself* that nothing unusual was happening , it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after all , but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro , their little calls to each other , the scraping of the furniture on the floor , all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed from all sides . With his head and legs pulled in against him and his body pressed to the floor , he was forced to admit to himself that he could not stand all of this much longer .
So , while the women were leant against the desk in the other room catching their breath , he sallied out , changed direction four times not knowing what he should save first before his attention was suddenly caught by the picture on the wall - which was already denuded of everything else that had been on it - of the lady dressed in copious fur . He hurried up onto the picture and *pressed* *himself* against its glass , it held him firmly and felt good on his hot belly .
They had not *allowed* *themselves* a long rest and came back quite soon ; Grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly carrying her .
She ran into the other room to fetch some kind of smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint ; Gregor wanted to help too - he could save his picture later , although he stuck fast to the glass and had to *pull* *himself* off by force ; then he , too , ran into the next room as if he could advise his sister like in the old days ; but he had to just stand behind her doing nothing ; she was looking into various bottles , he startled her when she turned round ; a bottle fell to the ground and broke ; a splinter cut Gregor 's face , some kind of caustic medicine splashed all over him ; now , without delaying any longer , Grete took hold of all the bottles she could and ran with them in to her mother ; she slammed the door shut with her foot .
The maid , of course , had *locked* *herself* in her kitchen so that Grete would have to go and answer it . His father had arrived home .
So he fled to the door of his room and *pressed* *himself* against it so that his father , when he came in from the hall , could see straight away that Gregor had the best intentions and would go back into his room without delay , that it would not be necessary to drive him back but that they had only to open the door and he would disappear .
He probably did not even *know* *himself* what he had in mind , but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high .
Now , as he lurched about in his efforts to muster all the strength he could for running he could hardly keep his eyes open ; his thoughts became too slow for him to think of any other way of *saving* *himself* than running ; he almost forgot that the walls were there for him to use although , here , they were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and protrusions - then , right beside him , lightly tossed , something flew down and rolled in front of him .
Another one however , immediately following it , hit squarely and lodged in his back ; Gregor wanted to *drag* *himself* away , as if he could remove the surprising , the incredible pain by changing his position ; but he felt as if nailed to the spot and *spread* *himself* out , all his senses in confusion .
The last thing he saw was the door of his room being pulled open , his sister was screaming , his mother ran out in front of her in her blouse ( as his sister had taken off some of her clothes after she had fainted to make it easier for her to breathe ) , she ran to his father , her skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground , stumbling over the skirts she *pushed* *herself* to his father , her arms around him , *uniting* *herself* with him totally - now Gregor lost his ability to see anything - her hands behind his father 's head begging him to spare Gregor 's life .
This is what peace I get in my old age ! " And supported by the two women he would *lift* *himself* up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load himself , let the women take him to the door , send them off and carry on by himself while Gregor 's mother would throw down her needle and his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and continue being of help to him .
They carried out absolutely everything that the world expects from poor people , Gregor 's father brought bank employees their breakfast , his mother *sacrificed* *herself* by washing clothes for strangers , his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers , but they just did not have the strength to do any more .
Just by chance one day , rather than any real curiosity , she opened the door to Gregor 's room and found *herself* *face* to face with him . He was taken totally by surprise , no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in front of her .
Only if he happened to *find* *himself* next to the food that had been prepared for him he might take some of it into his mouth to play with it , leave it there a few hours and then , more often than not , spit it out again .
They do *feed* *themselves* . And here I am , dying ! "
What 's more , there was now all the more reason to *keep* *himself* hidden as he was covered in the dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest movement ; he carried threads , hairs , and remains of food about on his back and sides ; he was much too indifferent to everything now to lay on his back and *wipe* *himself* on the carpet like he had used to do several times a day .
Meanwhile Gregor 's sister had overcome the despair she had fallen into when her playing was suddenly interrupted . She had let her hands drop and let violin and bow hang limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if still playing , but then she suddenly *pulled* *herself* together , lay the instrument on her mother 's lap who still sat laboriously struggling for breath where she was , and ran into the next room which , under pressure from her father , the three gentlemen were more quickly moving toward .
Gregor 's father staggered back to his seat , feeling his way with his hands , and fell into it ; it looked as if he was *stretching* *himself* out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head kept nodding it could be seen that he was not sleeping at all .
We 've only *harmed* *ourselves* by believing it for so long .
In her alarm , which was totally beyond Gregor 's comprehension , his sister even abandoned his mother as she *pushed* *herself* vigorously out of her chair as if more willing to sacrifice her own mother than stay anywhere near Gregor . She rushed over to behind her father , who had become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his hands in front of Gregor 's sister as if to protect her .
All he had done was begin to turn round so that he could go back into his room , although that was in itself quite startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help *himself* *do* it , repeatedly raising it and striking it against the floor .
`` What now , then ? , '' Gregor *asked* *himself* as he looked round in the darkness .
`` Now then , '' said Mr. Samsa , `` let 's give thanks to God for that . '' He *crossed* *himself* , and the three women followed his example .
At first , he stood there still , looking at the ground as if the contents of his head were *rearranging* *themselves* into new positions .
Such dominions thus acquired are either accustomed to live under a prince , or to live in freedom ; and are acquired either by the arms of the *prince* *himself* , or of others , or else by fortune or by ability .
I will leave out all discussion on republics , inasmuch as in another place I have written of them at length , and will *address* *myself* only to principalities .
I say at once there are fewer difficulties in holding hereditary states , and those long accustomed to the family of their prince , than new ones ; for it is sufficient only not to transgress the customs of his ancestors , and to deal prudently with circumstances as they arise , for a prince of average powers to *maintain* *himself* in his state , unless he be deprived of it by some extraordinary and excessive force ; and if he should be so deprived of it , whenever anything sinister happens to the usurper , he will regain it .
For these reasons Louis the Twelfth , King of France , quickly occupied Milan , and as quickly lost it ; and to turn him out the first time it only needed Lodovico 's own forces ; because those who had opened the gates to him , *finding* *themselves* deceived in their hopes of future benefit , would not endure the ill-treatment of the new prince .
It is very true that , after acquiring rebellious provinces a second time , they are not so lightly lost afterwards , because the prince , with little reluctance , takes the opportunity of the rebellion to punish the delinquents , to clear out the suspects , and to *strengthen* *himself* in the weakest places .
The general reasons for the first have been discussed ; it remains to name those for the second , and to see what resources he had , and what any one in his situation would have had for *maintaining* *himself* more securely in his acquisition than did the King of France .
Upon this , one has to remark that men ought either to be well treated or crushed , because they can *avenge* *themselves* of lighter injuries , of more serious ones they can not ; therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge .
Again , the prince who holds a country differing in the above respects ought to *make* *himself* the head and defender of his less powerful neighbours , and to weaken the more powerful amongst them , taking care that no foreigner as powerful as himself shall , by any accident , get a footing there ; for it will always happen that such a one will be introduced by those who are discontented , either through excess of ambition or through fear , as one has seen already .
Let any one now consider with what little difficulty the king could have maintained his position in Italy had he observed the rules above laid down , and kept all his friends secure and protected ; for although they were numerous they were both weak and timid , some afraid of the Church , some of the Venetians , and thus they would always have been forced to stand in with him , and by their means he could easily have made *himself* *secure* against those who remained powerful .
It never occurred to him that by this action he was *weakening* *himself* , *depriving* *himself* of friends and of those who had *thrown* *themselves* into his lap , whilst he aggrandized the Church by adding much temporal power to the spiritual , thus giving it greater authority .
And having committed this prime error , he was obliged to follow it up , so much so that , to put an end to the ambition of Alexander , and to prevent his becoming the master of Tuscany , he was *himself* *forced* to come into Italy .
And as if it were not enough to have aggrandized the Church , and *deprived* *himself* of friends , he , wishing to have the kingdom of Naples , divides it with the King of Spain , and where he was the prime arbiter in Italy he takes an associate , so that the ambitious of that country and the malcontents of his own should have somewhere to shelter ; and whereas he could have left in the kingdom his own pensioner as king , he drove him out , to put one there who was able to drive him , Louis , out in turn .
Which errors , had he lived , were not enough to injure him had he not made a sixth by taking away their dominions from the Venetians ; because , had he not aggrandized the Church , nor brought Spain into Italy , it would have been very reasonable and necessary to humble them ; but having first taken these steps , he ought never to have consented to their ruin , for they , being powerful , would always have kept off others from designs on Lombardy , to which the Venetians would never have consented except to become masters *themselves* *there* ; also because the others would not wish to take Lombardy from France in order to give it to the Venetians , and to run counter to both they would not have had the courage .
Considering the difficulties which men have had to hold to a newly acquired state , some might wonder how , seeing that Alexander the Great became the master of Asia in a few years , and died whilst it was scarcely settled ( whence it might appear reasonable that the whole empire would have rebelled ) , nevertheless his successors *maintained* *themselves* , and had to meet no other difficulty than that which arose among themselves from their own ambitions .
Nor is it enough for you to have exterminated the family of the prince , because the lords that remain *make* *themselves* the heads of fresh movements against you , and as you are unable either to satisfy or exterminate them , that state is lost whenever time brings the opportunity .
And if his successors had been united they would have enjoyed it securely and at their ease , for there were no tumults raised in the kingdom except those they *provoked* *themselves* .
But when cities or countries are accustomed to live under a prince , and his family is exterminated , they , being on the one hand accustomed to obey and on the other hand not having the old prince , can not agree in making one from amongst themselves , and they do not know how to *govern* *themselves* .
It behoved him , therefore , to upset this state of affairs and embroil the powers , so as to *make* *himself* securely master of part of their states .
The duke , therefore , having acquired the Romagna and beaten the Colonnesi , while wishing to hold that and to advance further , was hindered by two things : the one , his forces did not appear loyal to him , the other , the goodwill of France : that is to say , he feared that the forces of the Orsini , which he was using , would not stand to him , that not only might they hinder him from winning more , but might *themselves* *seize* what he had won , and that the king might also do the same .
And because he knew that the past severity had caused some hatred against himself , so , to *clear* *himself* in the minds of the people , and gain them entirely to himself , he desired to show that , if any cruelty had been practised , it had not originated with him , but in the natural sternness of the minister .
But let us return whence we started . I say that the duke , *finding* *himself* now sufficiently powerful and partly secured from immediate dangers by having armed himself in his own way , and having in a great measure crushed those forces in his vicinity that could injure him if he wished to proceed with his conquest , had next to consider France , for he knew that the king , who too late was aware of his mistake , would not support him .
It was his intention to *secure* *himself* against them , and this he would have quickly accomplished had Alexander lived .
On the day that Julius the Second was elected , he told me that he had thought of everything that might occur at the death of his father , and had provided a remedy for all , except that he had never anticipated that , when the death did happen , *he* *himself* would be on the point to die .
Therefore , he who considers it necessary to *secure* *himself* in his new principality , to win friends , to overcome either by force or fraud , to *make* *himself* beloved and feared by the people , to be followed and revered by the soldiers , to exterminate those who have power or reason to hurt him , to change the old order of things for new , to be severe and gracious , magnanimous and liberal , to destroy a disloyal soldiery and to create new , to maintain friendship with kings and princes in such a way that they must help him with zeal and offend with caution , can not find a more lively example than the actions of this man .
Nevertheless , he accompanied his infamies with so much ability of mind and body that , having *devoted* *himself* to the military profession , he rose through its ranks to be Praetor of Syracuse .
Being established in that position , and having deliberately resolved to make *himself* *prince* and to seize by violence , without obligation to others , that which had been conceded to him by assent , he came to an understanding for this purpose with Amilcar , the Carthaginian , who , with his army , was fighting in Sicily .
Still , if the courage of Agathocles in entering into and *extricating* *himself* from dangers be considered , together with his greatness of mind in enduring and overcoming hardships , it can not be seen why he should be esteemed less than the most notable captain .
When the viands and all the other entertainments that are usual in such banquets were finished , Oliverotto artfully began certain grave discourses , speaking of the greatness of Pope Alexander and his son Cesare , and of their enterprises , to which discourse Giovanni and others answered ; but he rose at once , saying that such matters ought to be discussed in a more private place , and he *betook* *himself* to a chamber , whither Giovanni and the rest of the citizens went in after him .
And his destruction would have been as difficult as that of Agathocles if he had not *allowed* *himself* to be overreached by Cesare Borgia , who took him with the Orsini and Vitelli at Sinigalia , as was stated above . Thus one year after he had committed this parricide , he was strangled , together with Vitellozzo , whom he had made his leader in valour and wickedness .
Some may wonder how it can happen that Agathocles , and his like , after infinite treacheries and cruelties , should live for long secure in his country , and *defend* *himself* from external enemies , and never be conspired against by his own citizens ; seeing that many others , by means of cruelty , have never been able even in peaceful times to hold the state , still less in the doubtful times of war .
It is impossible for those who follow the other to *maintain* *themselves* .
He who does otherwise , either from timidity or evil advice , is always compelled to keep the knife in his hand ; neither can he rely on his subjects , nor can they *attach* *themselves* to him , owing to their continued and repeated wrongs .
He who obtains sovereignty by the assistance of the nobles *maintains* *himself* with more difficulty than he who comes to it by the aid of the people , because the former *finds* *himself* with many around him who *consider* *themselves* his equals , and because of this he can neither rule nor manage them to his liking .
But he who reaches sovereignty by popular favour *finds* *himself* alone , and has none around him , or few , who are not prepared to obey him .
It is to be added also that a prince can never *secure* *himself* against a hostile people , because of their being too many , whilst from the nobles he can *secure* *himself* , as they are few in number .
The worst that a prince may expect from a hostile people is to be abandoned by them ; but from hostile nobles he has not only to fear abandonment , but also that they will rise against him ; for they , being in these affairs more far-seeing and astute , always come forward in time to *save* *themselves* , and to obtain favours from him whom they expect to prevail .
Those who so *bind* *themselves* , and are not rapacious , ought to be honoured and loved ; those who do not *bind* *themselves* may be dealt with in two ways ; they may fail to do this through pusillanimity and a natural want of courage , in which case you ought to make use of them , especially of those who are of good counsel ; and thus , whilst in prosperity you honour them , in adversity you do not have to fear them .
But when for their own ambitious ends they shun *binding* *themselves* , it is a token that they are giving more thought to themselves than to you , and a prince ought to guard against such , and to fear them as if they were open enemies , because in adversity they always help to ruin him .
Nabis , Prince of the Spartans , sustained the attack of all Greece , and of a victorious Roman army , and against them he defended his country and his government ; and for the overcoming of this peril it was only necessary for him to *make* *himself* secure against a few , but this would not have been sufficient had the people been hostile .
And do not let any one impugn this statement with the trite proverb that `` He who builds on the people , builds on the mud , '' for this is true when a private citizen makes a foundation there , and *persuades* *himself* that the people will free him when he is oppressed by his enemies or by the magistrates ; wherein he would *find* *himself* very often deceived , as happened to the Gracchi in Rome and to Messer Giorgio Scali in Florence .
But granted a prince who has *established* *himself* as above , who can command , and is a man of courage , undismayed in adversity , who does not fail in other qualifications , and who , by his resolution and energy , keeps the whole people encouraged - such a one will never *find* *himself* deceived in them , and it will be shown that he has laid his foundations well .
It is necessary to consider another point in examining the character of these principalities : that is , whether a prince has such power that , in case of need , he can *support* *himself* with his own resources , or whether he has always need of the assistance of others .
And to make this quite clear I say that I consider those who are able to *support* *themselves* by their own resources who can , either by abundance of men or money , raise a sufficient army to join battle against any one who comes to attack them ; and I consider those always to have need of others who can not *show* *themselves* against the enemy in the field , but are forced to *defend* *themselves* by sheltering behind walls .
Therefore , a prince who has a strong city , and had not *made* *himself* odious , will not be attacked , or if any one should attack he will only be driven off with disgrace ; again , because that the affairs of this world are so changeable , it is almost impossible to keep an army a whole year in the field without being interfered with .
And whoever should reply : If the people have property outside the city , and see it burnt , they will not remain patient , and the long siege and self-interest will make them forget their prince ; to this I answer that a powerful and courageous prince will overcome all such difficulties by giving at one time hope to his subjects that the evil will not be for long , at another time fear of the cruelty of the enemy , then *preserving* *himself* adroitly from those subjects who seem to him to be too bold .
These princes alone have states and do not defend them ; and they have subjects and do not rule them ; and the states , although unguarded , are not taken from them , and the subjects , although not ruled , do not care , and they have neither the desire nor the ability to *alienate* *themselves* .
They are ready enough to be your soldiers whilst you do not make war , but if war comes they *take* *themselves* off or run from the foe ; which I should have little trouble to prove , for the ruin of Italy has been caused by nothing else than by resting all her hopes for many years on mercenaries , and although they formerly made some display and appeared valiant amongst themselves , yet when the foreigners came they showed what they were .
Duke Filippo being dead , the Milanese enlisted Francesco Sforza against the Venetians , and he , having overcome the enemy at Caravaggio , *allied* *himself* with them to crush the Milanese , his masters .
His father , Sforza , having been engaged by Queen Johanna of Naples , left her unprotected , so that she was forced to *throw* *herself* into the arms of the King of Aragon , in order to save her kingdom .
And if the Venetians and Florentines formerly extended their dominions by these arms , and yet their captains did not *make* *themselves* princes , but have defended them , I reply that the Florentines in this case have been favoured by chance , for of the able captains , of whom they might have stood in fear , some have not conquered , some have been opposed , and others have turned their ambitions elsewhere . One who did not conquer was Giovanni Acuto , and since he did not conquer his fidelity can not be proved ; but every one will acknowledge that , had he conquered , the Florentines would have stood at his discretion .
And in the beginning of their expansion on land , through not having much territory , and because of their great reputation , they had not much to fear from their captains ; but when they expanded , as under Carmignuola , they had a taste of this mistake ; for , having found him a most valiant man ( they beat the Duke of Milan under his leadership ) , and , on the other hand , knowing how lukewarm he was in the war , they feared they would no longer conquer under him , and for this reason they were not willing , nor were they able , to let him go ; and so , not to lose again that which they had acquired , they were compelled , in order to *secure* *themselves* , to murder him .
And although ancient histories may be full of examples , I do not wish to leave this recent one of Pope Julius the Second , the peril of which can not fail to be perceived ; for he , wishing to get Ferrara , *threw* *himself* entirely into the hands of the foreigner .
David *offered* *himself* to Saul to fight with Goliath , the Philistine champion , and , to give him courage , Saul armed him with his own weapons ; which David rejected as soon as he had them on his back , saying he could make no use of them , and that he wished to meet the enemy with his sling and his knife .
And the way to make ready one 's own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be reflected upon , and if one will consider how Philip , the father of Alexander the Great , and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves , to which rules I entirely *commit* *myself* .
For among other evils which being unarmed brings you , it causes you to be despised , and this is one of those ignominies against which a prince ought to *guard* *himself* , as is shown later on .
He ought never , therefore , to have out of his thoughts this subject of war , and in peace he should *addict* *himself* more to its exercise than in war ; this he can do in two ways , the one by action , the other by study .
Philopoemen , Prince of the Achaeans , among other praises which writers have bestowed on him , is commended because in time of peace he never had anything in his mind but the rules of war ; and when he was in the country with friends , he often stopped and reasoned with them : " If the enemy should be upon that hill , and we should *find* *ourselves* here with our army , with whom would be the advantage ?
But to exercise the intellect the prince should read histories , and study there the actions of illustrious men , to see how they have *borne* *themselves* in war , to examine the causes of their victories and defeat , so as to avoid the latter and imitate the former ; and above all do as an illustrious man did , who took as an exemplar one who had been praised and famous before him , and whose achievements and deeds he always kept in his mind , as it is said Alexander the Great imitated Achilles , Caesar Alexander , Scipio Cyrus .
Therefore , putting on one side imaginary things concerning a prince , and discussing those which are real , I say that all men when they are spoken of , and chiefly princes for being more highly placed , are remarkable for some of those qualities which bring them either blame or praise ; and thus it is that one is reputed liberal , another miserly , using a Tuscan term ( because an avaricious person in our language is still he who desires to possess by robbery , whilst we call one miserly who *deprives* *himself* too much of the use of his own ) ; one is reputed generous , one rapacious ; one cruel , one compassionate ; one faithless , another faithful ; one effeminate and cowardly , another bold and brave ; one affable , another haughty ; one lascivious , another chaste ; one sincere , another cunning ; one hard , another easy ; one grave , another frivolous ; one religious , another unbelieving , and the like .
And I know that every one will confess that it would be most praiseworthy in a prince to exhibit all the above qualities that are considered good ; but because they can neither be entirely possessed nor observed , for human conditions do not permit it , it is necessary for him to be sufficiently prudent that he may know how to avoid the reproach of those vices which would lose him his state ; and also to *keep* *himself* , if it be possible , from those which would not lose him it ; but this not being possible , he may with less hesitation abandon himself to them .
And again , he need not *make* *himself* uneasy at incurring a reproach for those vices without which the state can only be saved with difficulty , for if everything is considered carefully , it will be found that something which looks like virtue , if followed , would be his ruin ; whilst something else , which looks like vice , yet followed brings him security and prosperity .
Therefore , a prince , not being able to exercise this virtue of liberality in such a way that it is recognized , except to his cost , if he is wise he ought not to fear the reputation of being mean , for in time he will come to be more considered than if liberal , seeing that with his economy his revenues are enough , that he can *defend* *himself* against all attacks , and is able to engage in enterprises without burdening his people ; thus it comes to pass that he exercises liberality towards all from whom he does not take , who are numberless , and meanness towards those to whom he does not give , who are few .
A prince , therefore , provided that he has not to rob his subjects , that he can *defend* *himself* , that he does not become poor and abject , that he is not forced to become rapacious , ought to hold of little account a reputation for being mean , for it is one of those vices which will enable him to govern .
And a prince should *guard* *himself* , above all things , against being despised and hated ; and liberality leads you to both .
This disposition , if he had been continued in the command , would have destroyed in time the fame and glory of Scipio ; but , he being under the control of the Senate , this injurious characteristic not only *concealed* *itself* , but contributed to his glory .
Returning to the question of being feared or loved , I come to the conclusion that , men loving according to their own will and fearing according to that of the prince , a wise prince should *establish* *himself* on that which is in his own control and not in that of others ; he must endeavour only to avoid hatred , as is noted .
Therefore it is necessary for a prince to understand how to *avail* *himself* of the beast and the man .
A prince , therefore , being compelled knowingly to adopt the beast , ought to choose the fox and the lion ; because the lion can not *defend* *himself* against snares and the fox can not *defend* *himself* against wolves .
But it is necessary to know well how to disguise this characteristic , and to be a great pretender and dissembler ; and men are so simple , and so subject to present necessities , that he who seeks to deceive will always find someone who will *allow* *himself* to be deceived .
Therefore it is necessary for him to have a mind ready to *turn* *itself* accordingly as the winds and variations of fortune force it , yet , as I have said above , not to diverge from the good if he can avoid doing so , but , if compelled , then to know how to set about it .
Every one sees what you appear to be , few really know what you are , and those few dare not *oppose* *themselves* to the opinion of the many , who have the majesty of the state to defend them ; and in the actions of all men , and especially of princes , which it is not prudent to challenge , one judges by the result .
It makes him contemptible to be considered fickle , frivolous , effeminate , mean-spirited , irresolute , from all of which a prince should *guard* *himself* as from a rock ; and he should endeavour to show in his actions greatness , courage , gravity , and fortitude ; and in his private dealings with his subjects let him show that his judgments are irrevocable , and *maintain* *himself* in such reputation that no one can hope either to deceive him or to get round him .
But concerning his subjects , when affairs outside are disturbed he has only to fear that they will conspire secretly , from which a prince can easily *secure* *himself* by avoiding being hated and despised , and by keeping the people satisfied with him , which it is most necessary for him to accomplish , as I said above at length .
And as experience shows , many have been the conspiracies , but few have been successful ; because he who conspires can not act alone , nor can he take a companion except from those whom he believes to be malcontents , and as soon as you have opened your mind to a malcontent you have given him the material with which to *content* *himself* , for by denouncing you he can look for every advantage ; so that , seeing the gain from this course to be assured , and seeing the other to be doubtful and full of dangers , he must be a very rare friend , or a thoroughly obstinate enemy of the prince , to keep faith with you .
And further , I consider that a prince ought to cherish the nobles , but not so as to *make* *himself* hated by the people .
And here it should be noted that hatred is acquired as much by good works as by bad ones , therefore , as I said before , a prince wishing to keep his state is very often forced to do evil ; for when that body is corrupt whom you think you have need of to *maintain* *yourself* - it may be either the people or the soldiers or the nobles - you have to submit to its humours and to gratify them , and then good works will do you harm .
But let us come to Alexander , who was a man of such great goodness , that among the other praises which are accorded him is this , that in the fourteen years he held the empire no one was ever put to death by him unjudged ; nevertheless , being considered effeminate and a man who *allowed* *himself* to be governed by his mother , he became despised , the army conspired against him , and murdered him .
After this there remained for Severus , who wished to make *himself* *master* of the whole empire , two difficulties ; one in Asia , where Niger , head of the Asiatic army , had *caused* *himself* to be proclaimed emperor ; the other in the west where Albinus was , who also aspired to the throne .
And as he considered it dangerous to *declare* *himself* hostile to both , he decided to attack Niger and to deceive Albinus .
But let us come to Commodus , to whom it should have been very easy to hold the empire , for , being the son of Marcus , he had inherited it , and he had only to follow in the footsteps of his father to please his people and soldiers ; but , being by nature cruel and brutal , he *gave* *himself* up to amusing the soldiers and corrupting them , so that he might indulge his rapacity upon the people ; on the other hand , not maintaining his dignity , often descending to the theatre to compete with gladiators , and doing other vile things , little worthy of the imperial majesty , he fell into contempt with the soldiers , and being hated by one party and despised by the other , he was conspired against and was killed .
1 . Some princes , so as to hold securely the state , have disarmed their subjects ; others have kept their subject towns distracted by factions ; others have fostered enmities against themselves ; others have *laid* *themselves* out to gain over those whom they distrusted in the beginning of their governments ; some have built fortresses ; some have overthrown and destroyed them .
But on this question one can not speak generally , for it varies so much with the individual ; I will only say this , that those men who at the commencement of a princedom have been hostile , if they are of a description to need assistance to *support* *themselves* , can always be gained over with the greatest ease , and they will be tightly held to serve the prince with fidelity , inasmuch as they know it to be very necessary for them to cancel by deeds the bad impression which he had formed of them ; and thus the prince always extracts more profit from them than from those who , serving him in too much security , may neglect his affairs .
CHAPTER XXI - HOW A PRINCE SHOULD *CONDUCT* *HIMSELF* SO AS TO GAIN RENOWN
Further , always using religion as a plea , so as to undertake greater schemes , he *devoted* *himself* with pious cruelty to driving out and clearing his kingdom of the Moors ; nor could there be a more admirable example , nor one more rare .
A prince is also respected when he is either a true friend or a downright enemy , that is to say , when , without any reservation , he *declares* *himself* in favour of one party against the other ; which course will always be more advantageous than standing neutral ; because if two of your powerful neighbours come to blows , they are of such a character that , if one of them conquers , you have either to fear him or not .
In either case it will always be more advantageous for you to *declare* *yourself* and to make war strenuously ; because , in the first case , if you do not *declare* *yourself* , you will invariably fall a prey to the conqueror , to the pleasure and satisfaction of him who has been conquered , and you will have no reasons to offer , nor anything to protect or to shelter you .
Thus it will always happen that he who is not your friend will demand your neutrality , whilst he who is your friend will entreat you to *declare* *yourself* with arms .
But when a prince *declares* *himself* gallantly in favour of one side , if the party with whom he allies *himself* *conquers* , although the victor may be powerful and may have him at his mercy , yet he is indebted to him , and there is established a bond of amity ; and men are never so shameless as to become a monument of ingratitude by oppressing you .
But if he with whom you *ally* *yourself* loses , you may be sheltered by him , and whilst he is able he may aid you , and you become companions on a fortune that may rise again .
A prince ought also to *show* *himself* a patron of ability , and to honour the proficient in every art .
Further , he ought to entertain the people with festivals and spectacles at convenient seasons of the year ; and as every city is divided into guilds or into societies , he ought to hold such bodies in esteem , and associate with them sometimes , and *show* *himself* an example of courtesy and liberality ; nevertheless , always maintaining the majesty of his rank , for this he must never consent to abate in anything .
It is that of flatterers , of whom courts are full , because men are so self-complacent in their own affairs , and in a way so deceived in them , that they are preserved with difficulty from this pest , and if they wish to *defend* *themselves* they run the danger of falling into contempt .
With these councillors , separately and collectively , he ought to *carry* *himself* in such a way that each of them should know that , the more freely he shall speak , the more he shall be preferred ; outside of these , he should listen to no one , pursue the thing resolved on , and be steadfast in his resolutions .
Therefore , do not let our princes accuse fortune for the loss of their principalities after so many years ' possession , but rather their own sloth , because in quiet times they never thought there could be a change ( it is a common defect in man not to make any provision in the calm against the tempest ) , and when afterwards the bad times came they thought of flight and not of *defending* *themselves* , and they hoped that the people , disgusted with the insolence of the conquerors , would recall them .
But *confining* *myself* more to the particular , I say that a prince may be seen happy to-day and ruined to-morrow without having shown any change of disposition or character .
Changes in estate also issue from this , for if , to one who *governs* *himself* with caution and patience , times and affairs converge in such a way that his administration is successful , his fortune is made ; but if times and affairs change , he is ruined if he does not change his course of action .
But a man is not often found sufficiently circumspect to know how to *accommodate* *himself* to the change , both because he can not deviate from what nature inclines him to do , and also because , having always prospered by acting in one way , he can not be persuaded that it is well to leave it ; and , therefore , the cautious man , when it is time to turn adventurous , does not know how to do it , hence he is ruined ; but had he changed his conduct with the times fortune would not have changed .
For my part I consider that it is better to be adventurous than cautious , because fortune is a woman , and if you wish to keep her under it is necessary to beat and ill-use her ; and it is seen that she *allows* *herself* to be mastered by the adventurous rather than by those who go to work more coldly .
And although singly they are good , altogether they will be much better when they *find* *themselves* commanded by their prince , honoured by him , and maintained at his expense .
DURING the whole of a dull , dark , and soundless day in the autumn of the year , when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens , I had been passing alone , on horseback , through a singularly dreary tract of country , and at length *found* *myself* , as the shades of the evening drew on , within view of the melancholy House of Usher .
I was aware , however , that his very ancient family had been noted , time out of mind , for a peculiar sensibility of temperament , *displaying* *itself* , through long ages , in many works of exalted art , and manifested , of late , in repeated deeds of munificent yet unobtrusive charity , as well as in a passionate devotion to the intricacies , perhaps even more than to the orthodox and easily recognizable beauties , of musical science .
There can be no doubt that the consciousness of the rapid increase of my superstition - for why should I not so term it ? - served mainly to accelerate the *increase* *itself* .
The room in which I *found* *myself* was very large and lofty .
It was with difficulty that I could *bring* *myself* to admit the identity of the wan being before me with the companion of my early boyhood .
It *displayed* *itself* in a host of unnatural sensations .
Hitherto she had steadily borne up against the pressure of her malady , and had not *betaken* *herself* finally to bed ; but on the closing in of the evening of my arrival at the house , she succumbed ( as her brother told me at night with inexpressible agitation ) to the prostrating power of the destroyer ; and I learned that the glimpse I had obtained of her person would thus probably be the last I should obtain - that the lady , at least while living , would be seen by me no more .
It was , perhaps , the narrow limits to which he thus *confined* *himself* upon the guitar which gave birth , in great measure , to the fantastic character of the performances .
They must have been , and were , in the notes , as well as in the words of his wild fantasias ( for he not unfrequently *accompanied* *himself* with rhymed verbal improvisations ) , the result of that intense mental collectedness and concentration to which I have previously alluded as observable only in particular moments of the highest artificial excitement .
Shaking this off with a gasp and a struggle , I *uplifted* *myself* upon the pillows , and , peering earnestly within the intense darkness of the chamber , hearkened - I know not why , except that an instinctive spirit prompted me - to certain low and indefinite sounds which came , through the pauses of the storm , at long intervals , I knew not whence .
Overpowered by an intense sentiment of horror , unaccountable yet unendurable , I threw on my clothes with haste ( for I felt that I should sleep no more during the night ) , and endeavored to *arouse* *myself* from the pitiable condition into which I had fallen , by pacing rapidly to and fro through the apartment .
Could I have judged , indeed , by the wild overstrained air of vivacity with which he hearkened , or apparently hearkened , to the words of the tale , I might well have *congratulated* *myself* upon the success of my design .
`` And now , the champion , having escaped from the terrible fury of the dragon , *bethinking* *himself* of the brazen shield , and of the breaking up of the enchantment which was upon it , removed the carcass from out of the way before him , and approached valorously over the silver pavement of the castle to where the shield was upon the wall ; which in sooth tarried not for his full coming , but fell down at his feet upon the silver floor , with a mighty great and terrible ringing sound . ''
The storm was still abroad in all its wrath as I *found* *myself* crossing the old causeway .
He could not *forgive* *himself* for that silly smile .
What can I do ? ' he *asked* *himself* in despair , and could find no answer .
He was incapable of self-deception and could not *persuade* *himself* that he repented of his conduct .
' Never mind , sir - things will *shape* *themselves* . '
' *Shape* *themselves* , eh ? '
' To go , or not to go ? ' he *asked* *himself* ; and his inner consciousness answered that he ought not to go : that it could only result in hypocrisy ; that it was impossible to restore their relations because it was impossible to render her attractive and capable of exciting love , or to turn him into an old man incapable of love .
' Nevertheless it will have to be done sooner or later . After all , things ca n't remain as they are , ' he said , trying to *brace* *himself* .
She was trying to do what she had attempted ten times already during those three days , to sort out her own and her children 's clothes to take to her mother 's ; but she could not *bring* *herself* to do it , and said again as she had done after each previous attempt , that things could not remain as they were - that she must do something to punish and humiliate him , and to *revenge* *herself* if only for a small part of the pain he had caused her .
She felt that it was impossible for her to leave ; but still *deceiving* *herself* , she went an sorting the things and pretending that she really would go .
Oblonsky could think calmly of his wife , could hope that ' things would *shape* *themselves* ' as Matthew had said , and could calmly read his paper and drink his coffee , but when he saw her worn , suffering face , and heard her tone , resigned and despairing , he felt a choking sensation . A lump rose to his throat and tears glistened in his eyes .
She wished to go away , but staggered and held on to the back of a chair to *support* *herself* .
She seemed to be trying to *recollect* *herself* , as if she did not know where she was or what she had to do .
Oblonsky sighed , wiped his face , and with soft steps left the room . ' Matthew says `` things will *shape* *themselves* , '' - but how ?
' Well , perhaps things will *shape* *themselves* - `` *shape* *themselves* '' !
When the Report had been read , Oblonsky rose , *stretching* *himself* , and , paying tribute to the Liberalism of the times , took out a cigarette before leaving the Office to go to his private room .
' On the one hand it 's simply playing ! They play at being a parliament , and I am neither young enough nor old enough to *amuse* *myself* with toys .
Levin 's conviction that it was impossible rested on the idea that from her relatives ' point of view he was not a good or suitable match for the delightful Kitty , and that *Kitty* *herself* could not love him .
Of course the mysterious , enchanting Kitty could not love a plain fellow , such as he *considered* *himself* to be , a man so ordinary and undistinguished .
To *justify* *himself* Levin began to relate what used to happen at the Meetings in his district .
' We Russians are always like that . It may be a good trait in us - this capacity to see our own faults - but we overdo it , and *comfort* *ourselves* with sarcasm , which is always ready on our tongues .
Yet skaters appeared quite calmly to gain on her , to catch her up , and even speak to her , and quite independently of her to *amuse* *themselves* enjoying the excellent ice and the fine weather .
He stood up , took off his overcoat , and having *given* *himself* a start on the rough ice near the shelter , glided down to the smooth surface of the lake , increasing and diminishing his speed and shaping his course as if by volition only .
' I do n't feel at all dull , I am very busy , ' he answered , conscious that she was subduing him to her quiet tone , from which - as had happened at the beginning of the winter - he would not be able to *free* *himself* .
' Do n't *hurt* *yourself* - it needs practice ! '
Levin went up the path as far back as he could to get up speed , and then slid downwards , *balancing* *himself* with his arms in this unaccustomed movement .
Levin was considering what the change in Kitty 's face meant now ; *persuading* *himself* that there was hope , now in despair , seeing clearly that such hope was madness ; but yet feeling an altogether different being from what he had been before her smile and the words ' Au revoir ! '
WHEN THEY ENTERED THE RESTAURANT Levin could not help noticing something peculiar in his friend 's expression , a kind of suppressed radiance in his face and whole figure . Oblonsky took off his overcoat , and with his hat on one side walked into the dining-room , giving his orders to the Tartar waiters , in their swallow-tail coats , with napkins under their arms , who *attached* *themselves* to him . Bowing right and left to his acquaintances who , here as elsewhere , greeted him joyfully , he passed on to the buffet , drank a glass of vodka and ate a bit of fish as hors-d 'oeuvre , and said something to the painted Frenchwoman , bedecked with ribbons and lace , who sat at a little counter - something that made even this Frenchwoman burst into frank laughter .
The waiter , remembering Oblonsky 's way of calling the items on the French menu by their Russian names , did not repeat the words after him , but afterwards *allowed* *himself* the pleasure of repeating the whole of the order according to the menu : ' Potage printanier , turbot , sauce Beaumarchais , boeuf , poularde  l 'estragon , macdoine de fruits ... ' and immediately , as if moved by springs , he put down the bill of fare in one cardboard cover , and seizing another containing the wine-list held it out to Oblonsky .
' I ca n't help it , ' replied Levin . ' *Put* *yourself* in my place - look at it from a country fellow 's point of view !
Levin obediently *helped* *himself* to sauce , but would not let Oblonsky eat .
That is disgusting , and therefore one ca n't help *feeling* *oneself* unworthy . '
Not only were nearly all the youths that danced at the Moscow balls in love with Kitty , but two serious suitors *presented* *themselves* for her that very first winter : Levin and , immediately after his departure , Count Vronsky .
The Russian way , of employing a professional match-maker , was considered monstrous , and was laughed at by everybody , including the *Princess* *herself* .
And now she was afraid that Vronsky might *content* *himself* with merely flirting with her daughter .
She saw that Kitty was in love with him , but *consoled* *herself* with the thought that Vronsky was an honest man and therefore would not act in such a way .
With her thought of Vronsky was mingled some uneasiness , though he was an extremely well-bred and quiet-mannered man ; a sense of something false , not in him , for he was very simple and kindly , but in herself ; whereas in relation to Levin she *felt* *herself* quite simple and clear .
And now for the first time the matter *presented* *itself* to her in a different and entirely new light .
Only now did she realize that this matter ( with whom she would be happy , who was the man she loved ) did not *concern* *herself* alone , but that in a moment she would have to wound a man she cared for , and to wound him cruelly ...
She was fond of Kitty , and her affection *showed* *itself* as the affection of a married woman for an unmarried one generally does , in a desire to get Kitty married according to her - the Countess 's - own ideal of conjugal bliss ; and she wished to see her married to Vronsky .
Ah the ball ! " - ' And the Prince *imagining* *himself* to be impersonating his wife curtsied at each word . ' And then if we really ruin Kitty 's happiness , if she really gets it into her head ... '
I can recognize a man who has serious intentions - such as Levin - and I can see through a weathercock like that popinjay who only wishes to *amuse* *himself* . '
Marriage had never *presented* *itself* to him as a possibility .
I *feel* *myself* better and purer , I feel I have a heart and that there is much that is good in me .
He is a very nervous man , and does *make* *himself* unpleasant sometimes , that 's true enough ; but on the other hand he is sometimes very charming .
His chest involuntarily expanded and his eyes shone , he *felt* *himself* to be a conqueror .
In the depths of his heart he did not respect his mother and ( though this he never acknowledged to himself ) did not love her , but in accordance with the views of the set he lived in , and as a result of his education , he could not *imagine* *himself* treating her in any way but one altogether submissive and respectful ; the more submissive and respectful he was externally , the less he honoured and loved her in his heart .
It was as if an excess of vitality so filled her whole being that it *betrayed* *itself* against her will , now in her smile , now in the light of her eyes .
' Oh yes , I should have recognized you , especially as I believe your mother and I have talked of nothing but you all the way , ' said she , at last allowing the animation she had been trying to suppress to *reveal* *itself* in a smile . ' But my brother is not here yet . '
*Thrown* *himself* under ... Run over ... ' shouted the passers-by .
She *threw* *herself* on the body . They say he was the sole support of a very large family .
I know they say husbands tell their wives how they have lived , but Steve ... ' She *corrected* *herself* .
' Dolly dearest ! I understand , but do n't *torture* *yourself* .
' All I can say is , ' began Anna , ' I am his sister and I know his character , his capacity for forgetting everything , ' she made a gesture with her hand in front of her forehead , ' that capacity for *letting* *himself* be completely carried away , but on the other hand for completely repenting .
' Well , of course ... ' Dolly put in quickly as if saying what she had often *herself* *thought* , ' or else it would not be forgiveness .
' Well , then , if I have to go , I shall *console* *myself* with the reflection that it will give you pleasure ... Grisha , please do n't pull so hard , it is all in a tangle already , ' she said , arranging a loose lock of hair with which Grisha was playing .
There 's Miss Hull calling you to tea , ' she went on , *disengaging* *herself* from the children and dispatching them to the dining-room .
For toward ten o 'clock - the time when she generally said good-night to her son and often put him to *bed* *herself* before going to a ball - she felt sad at being so far from him , and , whatever they talked about , her thoughts kept returning to her curly-headed Serezha .
She was not a girl just come out , for whom all faces at a ball blend into one fairy-like vision ; nor was she a girl who had been dragged from ball to ball till all the faces were familiar to dullness . She was between those two extremes , and though elated was able to *control* *herself* sufficiently to be observant .
She noticed that Anna was elated with success , a feeling Kitty *herself* *knew* so well .
Every time he turned toward Anna he slightly bowed his head as if he wished to fall down before her , and in his eyes there was an expression of submission and fear . ' I do not wish to offend , ' his every look seemed to say , ' I only wish to *save* *myself* , but I do not know how . '
And , strange to say , though they were talking about Ivan Ivanich , who *made* *himself* so ridiculous with his French , and how Miss Eletskaya could have made a better match , yet these words were important for them and they felt this as well as Kitty .
She *felt* *herself* quite broken-hearted .
' Oh ! it 's all the same to me ! ' replied Kitty . No one but *herself* *understood* her situation , because no one knew that she had only a few days ago refused a man whom she perhaps loved , and refused him because she trusted another .
She felt *herself* *crushed* and her face expressed it .
If I had any pride , I should not have put myself into such a position . ' And he pictured to himself Vronsky , happy , kind , clever , calm , and certainly never *placing* *himself* in such a terrible position as he , Levin , had been in that evening .
He recalled how despite the ridicule of his fellow-students his brother had lived like a monk while at the University and for a year after , strictly observing all the religious rites , attending service , fasting , avoiding all pleasures and especially women ; and then how he suddenly broke loose , became intimate with the vilest people and *gave* *himself* up to unbridled debauchery .
He kept glancing at his brother 's sickly , consumptive face , and felt more and more sorry for him , nor could he *force* *himself* to pay attention to what Nicholas was telling him about the Association .
All the profits on their labour , by which they might better their condition , *give* *themselves* some leisure , and consequently gain some education , all this surplus value is taken away by the capitalists .
And our society has so *shaped* *itself* that the more the people work the richer the merchants and landowners will become , while the people will remain beasts of burden for ever .
Tell me what you are doing , ' he continued , greedily chewing a crust of bread and *filling* *himself* another glass . ' How are you getting on ? '
He felt this at the mere sight of Ignat and the horses ; but when he had put on the sheepskin coat that had been brought for him and , well wrapped up , had *seated* *himself* in the sledge and started homeward , turning over in his mind the orders he would give about the work on the estate , and as he watched the side horse ( once a saddle-horse that had been overridden , a spirited animal from the Don ) , he saw what had befallen him in quite a different light .
Secondly , he would never again *allow* *himself* to be carried away by passion , the repulsive memory of which had so tormented him when he was making up his mind to propose .
Then , remembering his brother Nicholas , he determined that he would never *allow* *himself* to forget him again , but would watch over him , keep him in sight , and be ready to help when things went hard with him .
He considered an entire change of economic conditions nonsense ; but he had always felt the injustice of his superfluities compared with the peasant 's poverty , and now decided , in order to *feel* *himself* quite justified , that though he had always worked hard and lived simply , he would in future work still more and *allow* *himself* still less luxury .
Laska , a setter bitch , ran out too , almost throwing Kuzma off his feet , and whined and *rubbed* *herself* against Levin 's knees , jumping up and wishing but not daring to put her front paws on his chest .
And obeying the latter voice he went to the corner where two thirty-six pound dumb-bells lay and began doing gymnastic exercises with them to *invigorate* *himself* .
He felt that in the depth of his soul something was settling down , adjusting and *composing* *itself* .
He patted her a little , and she *curled* *herself* up at his feet with her head on her outstretched hind paw .
This is a confession of something that oppresses me , and I want to make it to you , ' said Anna , determinedly *throwing* *herself* back in an arm-chair and looking straight into Dolly 's eyes .
' Oh no , no , I am not Steve , ' she said frowning . ' The reason I have told you is that I do not even for a moment *allow* *myself* to *distrust* *myself* . '
But at the moment when she uttered these words she knew they were untrue : she not only *distrusted* *herself* but was agitated by the thought of Vronsky , and was leaving sooner than she had intended only that she might not meet him again .
She was too eager to *live* *herself* .
But there was nothing to be done , so she *forced* *herself* to read , while her little hand toyed with the smooth paper-knife .
' What am I ashamed of ? ' she *asked* *herself* with indignant surprise .
She had *assured* *herself* more than once during those last few days , and again a moment ago , that Vronsky in relation to her was only one of the hundreds of everlastingly identical young men she met everywhere , and that she would never *allow* *herself* to give him a thought ; yet now , at the first moment of seeing him again , she was seized by a feeling of joyful pride .
He *felt* *himself* a king , not because he believed that he had made an impression on Anna - he did not yet believe that - but because the impression she had made on him filled him with happiness and pride .
By *addressing* *himself* thus to his wife he conveyed to Vronsky his wish to be alone with her , and turning to Vronsky he touched his hat .
' You insist too much on your devotion , for me to value it greatly , ' she replied in the same playful tone , while she involuntarily listened to the sound of Vronsky 's footsteps following them . ' But what does he matter to me ? ' she *asked* *herself* , and began inquiring of her husband how Serezha had got on during her absence .
To speak of it would be to give it an importance that does not belong to it . ' She remembered how she had once told her husband about one of his subordinates who very nearly made her a declaration , and how Karenin had answered that every woman living in Society was liable to such things , but that he had full confidence in her tact and would never *degrade* *himself* and her by being jealous .
Altogether , when , after her visitors had left , Anna *busied* *herself* with her toilet , she was much vexed .
Completely to regain her composure , she went to the nursery and spent the evening with her son . She put him to *bed* *herself* , made the sign of the cross over him , and tucked him up .
' Here you are at last ! ' she said , holding out her hand to him . He kissed it , and *seated* *himself* beside her .
' The *master* *himself* ! Baroness , some coffee for him out of the new coffee-pot ...
But there was another sort of people : the real people to which all his set belonged , who had above all to be well-bred , generous , bold , gay , and to *abandon* *themselves* unblushingly to all their passions and laugh at everything else .
' Yes , I am , ' replied Vronsky , *rubbing* *himself* with a bath-towel .
Having heard all the news , Vronsky , with the help of his valet , put on his uniform and went to *report* *himself* .
' But you know in these cases there is always some hidden moral cause , ' the family doctor *allowed* *himself* to remark with a subtle smile .
But she did not want to pain her mother , especially as her mother *considered* *herself* to blame .
Such a discovery could now only deprive her of her accustomed family life , and she *let* *herself* be deceived , despising him , and especially herself , for such weakness .
ON ENTERING KITTY 'S LITTLE SNUGGERY , a pretty pink room , decorated with vieux saxe figures - as fresh , rosy and gay as *Kitty* *herself* had been two months before , Dolly remembered how light-heartedly and with what love they two had arranged that room the year before .
' I am going home now and shall have to *shut* *myself* up , and you wo n't be able to come to me , ' said Dolly , sitting down beside her sister . ' I want to talk to you . '
Dolly knew her sister 's habit of fingering something when she was heated , and she knew how apt Kitty was to *forget* *herself* when in a passion and to say much that was unpleasant and had better not have been said . She tried to pacify her ; but it was too late .
I have enough pride never to *let* *myself* love a man who does not love me . '
And the sweet tear-stained face *hid* *itself* in the folds of Dolly 's dress .
Formerly to go anywhere in a ball-dress was just a pleasure to me . I used to *like* *myself* in it ; but now I feel ashamed and uncomfortable .
She met him most frequently at Betsy 's , who was a *Vronsky* *herself* and his cousin .
At first Anna sincerely believed that she was displeased with him for *allowing* *himself* to persecute her ; but soon after her return from Moscow , having gone to a party where she expected to meet him but to which he did not come , she clearly realized , by the sadness that overcame her , that she had been *deceiving* *herself* and that his persecution supplied the whole interest of her life .
*Wenden* *himself* , having returned from his office and hearing the front-door bell and voices , went out , saw the tipsy officers with the letter , and hustled them out .
She had scarcely time to go to her dressing-room , put powder on her long pale face and rub it off again , *smarten* *herself* up , and order tea to be served in the big drawing-room , before one carriage after another began to arrive at the door of her immense house on the Great Morskaya .
' I wonder that she , with her common sense - for she is not stupid - does not see how ridiculous she *makes* *herself* . '
The Princess Myagkaya did not understand why her words had such an effect , but was aware that they did and *availed* *herself* of it .
' But I do n't even think of blaming her ! ' Anna 's friend said , *justifying* *herself* .
The Princess was characterizing Karenin , ' replied the ambassador 's wife with a smile , *seating* *herself* at the table .
Anna entered the room *holding* *herself* , as usual , very erect , and without changing the direction of her eyes approached her hostess , walking with that quick , firm yet light step which distinguished her from other Society women . She shook hands ; smilingly , and with the same smile looked round at Vronsky .
' Yes , but how often the happiness of marriages founded on reason crumbles to dust because the very passion that was disregarded *makes* *itself* felt later , ' said Vronsky .
He saw that she was saying what she *forced* *herself* to utter and not what she wished to say .
When he reached home he went to his study as usual , *seated* *himself* in his easy-chair , and opened a book on the Papacy at the place where his paper-knife was inserted . He read till one o 'clock as was his wont , only now and then rubbing his high forehead and jerking his head as if driving something away .
Why he should have confidence - that is , a full conviction that his young wife would always love him - he never *asked* *himself* ; but he felt no distrust , and therefore had confidence , and *assured* *himself* that it was right to have it .
Karenin was being confronted with life - with the possibility of his wife 's loving somebody else , and this seemed stupid and incomprehensible to him , because it was *life* *itself* .
What decision ? ' he *asked* *himself* in the drawing-room , and could find no answer . ' But after all , ' he reflected before turning into her room , ' what is it that has happened ?
Besides ... to be jealous is to *degrade* *myself* and her , ' he said to himself as he entered her sitting-room .
And again he repeated to himself in the dining-room : ' Yes , it is necessary to decide , and stop it , and express my opinion ... ' And again in the drawing-room , at the turn into her room , he *asked* *himself* ' Decide what ? ' and then , ' What has happened ? ' and he replied ' Nothing , ' and remembered that jealousy is a feeling which insults a wife ; but in the drawing-room he came again to the conviction that something had happened .
To *put* *himself* in thought and feeling into another being was a mental action foreign to Karenin .
Thinking it over , he regretted having to spend his time and powers of mind on inconspicuous domestic affairs ; but nevertheless , clearly and definitely , as though it were an official report , the form and sequence of the speech he had to make *shaped* *itself* in his mind . ' I must make the following quite clear : First , the importance of public opinion and propriety ; secondly , the religious meaning of marriage ; thirdly , if necessary , I must refer to the harm that may result to our son ; fourthly , allude to her own unhappiness . '
What about ? ' she asked , *seating* *herself* . ' Well , let us have a talk , if it is so important .
She felt *herself* *clothed* in an impenetrable armour of lies and that some unseen power was helping and supporting her .
As you know , I consider jealousy an insulting and degrading feeling and will never *allow* *myself* to be guided by it ; but there are certain laws of propriety which one can not disregard with impunity .
For a long time she lay still with wide-open eyes , the brightness of which it seemed to her she could *herself* *see* in the darkness .
Karenin , strong as he was in his official activities , felt *himself* *powerless* here .
Each time he began to think about it , he felt that he must try again , that by kindness , tenderness , and persuasion there was still a hope of saving her and obliging her to *bethink* *herself* . Every day he *prepared* *himself* to have a talk with her .
She felt so guilty , so much to blame , that it only remained for her to *humble* *herself* and ask to be forgiven ; but she had no one in the world now except him , so that even her prayer for forgiveness was addressed to him .
The shame she felt at her spiritual nakedness *communicated* *itself* to him .
Then , as the murderer desperately *throws* *himself* on the body , as though with passion , and drags it and hacks it , so Vronsky covered her face and shoulders with kisses . She held his hand and did not move .
At last , as though *mastering* *herself* , she sat up and pushed him away .
WHEN LEVIN FIRST RETURNED FROM MOSCOW , and while he still started and blushed every time he remembered the disgrace of the refusal , he had said to himself , ' I blushed and started like this when I was ploughed in physics and had to remain in the second class ; and in the same way I felt *myself* *lost* when I made a mess of my sister 's affair that had been entrusted to me .
However much he *told* *himself* that he was not at all to blame in that matter , the memory of it , together with other shameful memories , made him start and blush .
I 'll see to *everything* *myself* . '
The further he went the happier he felt and all sorts of plans for his estate , each better than the last , *presented* *themselves* to him : to plant rows of willows with a southern aspect on all the fields , so that the snow should not remain long under them ; to divide the fields , tilling six and keeping three under grass ; to build a new cattle-yard at the further end of the field , to dig a pond , and to make folds for the cattle for manuring purposes .
' Why , it was you who taught us to sow it . The year before last you gave me a bushel of *seed* *yourself* .
But Levin , frowning , pretended not to see the hand , and began taking the snipe out of the game-bag . ' You have been pleased to *amuse* *yourself* with shooting ?
On entering the study Ryabinin looked round by force of habit as though to find the icon , but after finding it he did not *cross* *himself* .
' If you please , the forest is mine , ' he said , rapidly *crossing* *himself* and holding out his hand . ' Take your money , the forest is mine .
An hour later the dealer ; with his coat well lapped over , the hooks of his overcoat carefully fastened , and with the agreement in his pocket , *seated* *himself* in his little cart and drove home .
Levin really was in a bad humour , and in spite of his desire to behave kindly and amiably to his charming guest he could not *master* *himself* .
But Levin did not think all this . He dimly felt that there was something insulting to him in the affair , and was angry not with what had upset him but with everything that *presented* *itself* to him .
Try as Levin would to *control* *himself* , he remained morose and silent .
There was one question he wanted to put to Oblonsky , but could not *bring* *himself* to ask , nor could he find the form to put it in or the moment to ask it .
' Does he , or does he not know that I proposed ? ' thought Levin , looking at him . ' Yes , there is something sly and diplomatic in his face , ' and feeling *himself* *blush* , he gazed in silence straight into Oblonsky 's eyes .
A man whose father crawled up from nothing by intrigues and whose mother has had relations with heaven knows whom ... No , pardon me , I *consider* *myself* and people like me aristocrats : people who can point back to three or four honourable generations of their family , all with a high standard of education ( talent and intelligence are a different matter ) , who have never cringed before anyone , never depended on anyone , but have lived as my father and my grandfather did .
It goes without saying that he spoke to none of them about his love , nor did he *betray* *himself* even in the wildest drinking-bouts ( indeed , he never drank so as to lose all self-control ) . And he silenced any of his thoughtless comrades who tried to hint at the liaison .
On the contrary he needed an occupation and an interest apart from his love , in which to *refresh* *himself* and find rest from the impressions which agitated him too violently .
' What ? *Fortifying* *yourself* for your job ? ' asked the plump officer taking a seat beside him .
And drawing up his blanket he *threw* *himself* back on his pillow . ' Leave me alone , Yashvin ! ' he said angrily to Yashvin , who was pulling the blanket off him .
Let us have a drink together ! Vronsky , will you have a drink ? ' said Petritsky , getting up and *wrapping* *himself* to the arms in a rug of tiger-skin pattern .
The mare 's excitement had *communicated* *itself* to Vronsky . He felt that the blood was rushing to his heart , and that he , like the horse , wished to move and to bite ; it was both frightening and joyful .
And now too , having *given* *himself* a shake , he continued the current of his thoughts :
When he was present neither Vronsky nor Anna *allowed* *themselves* to speak about anything they could not have mentioned to every one or even to hint at things the boy would not have understood .
But , besides this , her physical agitation *communicated* *itself* to him .
Vronsky could not understand how she , with her strong honest nature , could endure this state of deception and not wish to escape from it ; but he did not guess that the chief cause lay in the one word ' son ' which she could not *bring* *herself* to utter .
When she thought about her son and his future relations with the mother who had left his father , she was so terrified at what she had done that she did not reason , but woman-like only tried to *comfort* *herself* with false arguments and words in order that everything should remain as before and that she might forget the dreadful question of what would happen to her son .
' I was just thinking the same , ' he said ; ' wondering how you could sacrifice everything for my sake . I can not *forgive* *myself* for your unhappiness . '
Only after going some five miles did he *recollect* *himself* sufficiently to look at his watch and to realize that it was already half-past five , and that he was late .
' All right ! all right ! ' answered the Englishman . ' Do n't *upset* *yourself* . '
Vronsky once again glanced at the beautiful fascinating shape of the mare , whose whole body was trembling , and *tearing* *himself* with difficulty from this sight he left the shed .
The gelding , planting its feet with effort , reduced the speed of its enormous body , and the guards ' officer , like one waking from deep sleep , looked round and *forced* *himself* to smile .
He ascertained that Anna , Betsy , and his brother 's wife were there , but in order not to *agitate* *himself* , intentionally avoided going near them .
' There are things which should be discussed only by those who are directly interested , and the matter you are *concerning* *yourself* about is one ... '
Answer her , and do n't *upset* *yourself* before the race .
He was calm and important as usual , and standing in front of the horse , was *himself* *holding* both its reins .
The mare had not time to stir before Vronsky with a powerful and agile movement put his foot in the notched steel stirrup and *seated* *himself* lightly but firmly on the creaking leather of the saddle .
In the first moments Vronsky was master neither of *himself* *nor* of his mare .
Gladiator and Diana approached the stream together , and almost at the same moment rose above it and flew across to the other side ; lightly as if on wings Frou-Frou rose up behind them ; but at the moment when Vronsky *felt* *himself* raised in the air he suddenly saw , almost under his horse 's feet , Kusovlev , who was floundering on the other side of the stream with his Diana ( Kusovlev had let go of the reins at the jump and the horse fell throwing him over her head ) .
It was only by *feeling* *himself* nearer to the ground and by the smoothness of the pace that Vronsky knew how much the mare had increased her speed .
*He* *himself* , without knowing it , had made the unpardonable mistake of dropping back in his saddle and pulling up her head .
To his regret he felt that he was *himself* *sound* and unhurt .
He did not *let* *himself* think about this and did not think about it , yet at the bottom of his soul , without admitting it to himself or having any proofs or even suspicions of it , he nevertheless knew certainly that he was a wronged husband , and was therefore profoundly unhappy .
Had Karenin *allowed* *himself* to observe , he would have noticed the timid , confused look which the child cast first at his father and then at his mother .
As a child that has been hurt skips about , making its muscles move in order to dull its pain , so Karenin needed mental activity to smother those thoughts about his wife which in her presence and in the presence of Vronsky , and amid the continual mention of his name , *forced* *themselves* upon him .
' It is exciting , but one can not *tear* *oneself* away , ' said another lady . ' If I had been a Roman , I should never have missed a gladiatorial show . '
In spite of all he had seen , Karenin would still not *allow* *himself* to think of his wife 's real position .
' I asked you once before to *conduct* *yourself* in Society so that evil tongues might be unable to say anything against you .
And *throwing* *herself* back into the corner of the carriage she burst into sobs , hiding her face in her hands .
But for heaven 's sake ' - her look added - ' do not think that I shall *force* *myself* on you . I simply admire and love you . '
Kitty begged her mother more than ever to allow her to make Varenka 's acquaintance , and , much as the Princess disliked appearing to take the first step toward getting acquainted with Madame Stahl , who *allowed* *herself* to be proud of something or other , she made inquiries about Varenka , and , having learnt particulars which allowed her to conclude that though there might be little good there would be no harm in this acquaintance , she herself approached Varenka .
' Allow me to *introduce* *myself* , ' said the Princess with her dignified smile . ' My daughter has fallen in love with you .
She could not *accompany* *herself* but she sang at sight admirably .
' I hate him : and I can not *forgive* *myself* . '
But Varenka , lonely , without relatives or friends , with her sad disillusionment , wishing for nothing and regretting nothing , personified that perfection of which Kitty only *allowed* *herself* to dream .
In Varenka she saw that it was only necessary to *forget* *oneself* and to love others in order to be at peace , happy , and lovely .
Having now clearly understood what was most important , Kitty was not content merely to delight in it , but immediately with her whole soul *devoted* *herself* to this newly revealed life .
Kitty evidently *prided* *herself* on fulfilling the duties of a sister-of-mercy in that family .
' Kitty , have you not had some unpleasantness with the Petrovs ? ' the Princess asked when they were again alone together . ' Why has she stopped sending the children here and *coming* *herself* ? '
' This is my daughter , ' said the Prince , ' allow me to *introduce* *myself* . '
' I do not know whether you will remember me , but I must *recall* *myself* to you in order to thank you for your kindness to my daughter , ' he said , raising his hat and not putting it on again .
She did not renounce all she had learnt , but realized that she had *deceived* *herself* when thinking that she could be what she wished to be .
With his natural kind heart he of course liked human beings more than he disliked them , and naturally the peasants were included ; but he could not like or dislike the people as if they were something apart , because he not only lived among them , his interests closely bound up with theirs , but he *considered* *himself* one of the people and could not find in himself any special qualities or defects which placed him in contrast with them .
But the older he grew and the more intimately he came to know his brother , the oftener the thought occurred to him that the power of working for the general welfare - a power of which he *felt* *himself* entirely destitute - was not a virtue but rather a lack of something : not a lack of kindly honesty and noble desires and tastes , but a lack of the power of living , of what is called heart - the aspiration which makes a man choose one out of all the innumerable paths of life that *present* *themselves* , and desire that alone .
Constantine *felt* *himself* morally cornered , and in consequence became excited and involuntarily betrayed the chief cause of his indifference to social questions .
He *felt* *himself* beaten at every point , yet was sure that his brother had not understood what he had been trying to say , only he did not know why this was so : whether it was because he could not *express* *himself* clearly , or because his brother either could not or did not wish to understand him .
THE PERSONAL MATTER THAT OCCUPIED LEVIN while he was talking with his brother was this . The year before , when visiting a field that was being mown , he had lost his temper with his steward , and to calm himself had used a remedy of his own - he took a scythe from one of the peasants and *himself* *began* mowing .
' And please send my scythe to Titus to be sharpened , and have it taken to the meadow to-morrow : I may go *mowing* *myself* , ' he said , trying to overcome his confusion .
Levin took it and began to *put* *himself* in position .
Levin *straightened* *himself* , sighed , and looked back .
The old man went along *holding* *himself* erect , moving with regular , long steps , turning out his toes , and with a precise and even motion that seemed to cost him no more effort than swinging his arms when walking , he laid the grass in a level high ridge , as if in play or as if the sharp scythe of its own accord whizzed through the juicy grass .
The longer Levin went on mowing , the oftener he experienced those moments of oblivion when his arms no longer seemed to swing the scythe , but the scythe itself his whole body , so conscious and full of life ; and as if by magic , regularly and definitely without a thought being given to it , the work *accomplished* *itself* of its own accord .
He rose , *stretching* *himself* and smiling .
Like all guilty husbands Oblonsky was very anxious about his wife 's comfort , so he looked over the *house* *himself* and gave orders to have everything done that seemed to him necessary .
She consoled her mistress , assuring her that everything would ' *shape* *itself* ( this phrase was her own , and Matthew had learnt it from her ) , and she went to work deliberately and without excitement .
A club was soon established beneath the laburnums , consisting of Matrena Filimonovna , the steward 's wife , the village elder , and the office clerk ; and by means of this club the troubles began gradually to subside , so that in a week 's time everything had really ' *shaped* *itself* . '
Often when watching her children she made great efforts to *convince* *herself* that she was mistaken , that being their mother she was not impartial ; and yet she could not help *telling* *herself* that they were charming children , all the six , each in his or her own way , all of them such as are rarely to be met with ; and she was happy in them and proud of them .
But as she was passing through the dancing-room she saw a scene which filled her heart with such joy that tears came to her eyes and she pardoned the little *culprit* *herself* .
Terenty the coachman tied to a tree the horses , that were swishing their tails to drive away the flies , *stretched* *himself* full length in the shade , pressing down the high grass , and smoked his pipe , while from the bathing-house came the sound of the incessant merry squealing of the children .
One of the young women was watching the governess , who was dressing after all the others , and seeing her put on a third petticoat could not refrain from remarking : ' Look at her ! She 's *wrapping* *herself* up and *wrapping* *herself* up , and has n't got enough round her yet ! ' and the women burst out laughing .
On seeing her he *found* *himself* confronted by just such a picture of family life as his fancy painted .
Arguments about cows being milk-producing machines did not *commend* *themselves* to her , for she imagined that such arguments were calculated only to interfere with farming .
From the Elder 's vague replies to Levin 's questions as to how much hay the largest meadow had yielded , from his haste to apportion the hay without waiting for permission , and from the general tone of the peasant , Levin knew that there was something not quite square about the apportionment , and decided to go and investigate the *matter* *himself* .
When the last of the hay had been apportioned , Levin entrusted the rest of the supervision to the steward and *seated* *himself* on a haycock marked with a willow branch , looking with enjoyment at the meadow teeming with busy people .
How shall I do it ? ' he *asked* *himself* , trying to find expression for what he had been thinking and the feelings he had lived through in that short night .
All his ideas and feelings *separated* *themselves* into three different lines of thought .
And here no clear idea *presented* *itself* to his mind .
How am I to do it ? ' he again *asked* *himself* . , and could find no reply . ' However , I have not slept all night and ca n't render a clear account of myself now , ' he thought , ' but I 'll clear it up later .
I knew it and could see it all along , though I tried out of pity for her to *deceive* *myself* , ' thought he . And it really seemed to him that he had always seen it .
The one thing that preoccupied him was the question of how he could best *divest* *himself* of the mud with which she in her fall had bespattered him : of how to do it in the way which would be most decent , most convenient for him , and consequently fairest , and how he should continue his active , honest , and useful career .
Do I not know beforehand that my friends would never allow me to go so far as to fight a duel , would not allow a statesman whom Russia needs to *expose* *himself* to danger ?
This would happen : I , knowing beforehand that matters would never be allowed to reach a dangerous point , should have challenged a man in order to *cover* *myself* with false glamour .
That would be dishonest , it would be false , it would be *deceiving* *myself* as well as others .
Having considered and rejected the idea of a duel , Karenin turned his thoughts to divorce , the next expedient of which some of the wronged husbands he remembered had *availed* *themselves* .
My decision is as follows : Whatever your actions may have been , I do not *consider* *myself* justified in severing the bonds with which a Higher Power has united us .
If not , you can *yourself* *foresee* what awaits you and your son .
He felt that he now saw more deeply than ever into that complication , and that a capital idea ( he might say that without *flattering* *himself* ) had occurred to him , which would disentangle the whole business , raise him in his official career , upset his enemies , and therefore be of the greatest value to the State .
When Karenin had first taken up his present post he had at once realized this and had wished to stop it ; but , till he *felt* *himself* firmly seated , he knew that it would not be wise to do so as too many interests were involved . Afterwards , being occupied with other matters , he had simply forgotten the business .
After he left her , she *told* *herself* that she was glad she had told him , that now everything would be definite - at any rate , the falsehood and deception would no longer exist .
She *asked* *herself* where she would go when turned out , and found no answer .
When she thought about Vronsky , she imagined that he did not love her , that he was beginning to find her a burden , and that she could not *offer* *herself* to him ; and in consequence she felt hostile toward him .
' Go to Mariette , ' she said to Serezha , who had come out after her , and she began pacing up and down the straw matting of the verandah . ' Is it possible that they could not forgive me or understand that it could not have been otherwise ? ' she *asked* *herself* .
' Besides , what can I write to him ? ' she *asked* *herself* ; and again she blushed with shame .
But the time came when I understood that I could no longer *deceive* *myself* that I am alive , and can not be blamed because God made me so , that I want to love and to live .
He will be in the right , but as for me who am already disgraced he will disgrace me more and more ! ' - `` You can *yourself* *foresee* what awaits you and your son ! '' - ' - she repeated the words of the letter . ' That is a threat that he will take my son from me , and probably their stupid laws will permit it .
Everything *did* *itself* .
That is a question an enfant terrible might put ! ' and Betsy evidently tried to , but could not , *control* *herself* , and again burst out into the infectious kind of laughter peculiar to those who laugh seldom . ' You must ask them ! ' she uttered , while tears of laughter choked her voice .
' How I wish I knew others as I *know* *myself* ! ' said Anna , seriously and thoughtfully . ' Am I worse than others or better ?
' To fall asleep one must have worked , and also to *amuse* *oneself* one must have worked . '
While quite young and still in the Cadet Corps he had experienced the humiliation of a refusal when , having got into debt , he had tried to borrow money , and since then he had never again *allowed* *himself* to get into such a position .
To keep things straight he was in the habit , some five or six times a year according to circumstances , of *secluding* *himself* and clearing up all his affairs .
Consequently Vronsky , who was in the habit of spending 45,000 roubles a year , having this year received only 25,000 , *found* *himself* in difficulties .
He would have let his hand be cut off before he would have *allowed* *himself* by word or hint to insult her , or fail to show her all the respect that a woman can possibly desire .
He had made this proposal , but now , thinking it over , he saw clearly that it would be better to avoid that plan , and yet , while he *told* *himself* so , he feared that this might be wrong .
' When I told her to leave her husband , that meant that she should *unite* *herself* with me .
Having then perforce to assume the role of an independent character , he played it very adroitly and cleverly , as though he had no grudge against anyone , did not *feel* *himself* at all offended , and only wished to be left in peace to *enjoy* *himself* .
He jerked his head backwards and raised his glass , welcoming Vronsky and showing by this gesture that he must first go to the sergeant-major , who was already *stretching* *himself* and puckering his lips for a kiss .
He put down his legs , threw one of them over the other , and placing his arm across it felt its firm calf , where he had hurt it in the fall the day before , and then , *throwing* *himself* back , sighed deeply several times .
He had often before been joyfully conscious of his body , but had never *loved* *himself* , his own body , as he did now .
' Get on , get on ! ' he shouted to the coachman , *thrusting* *himself* out of the window , and taking a three-rouble note from his pocket he put it into the man 's hand as the latter turned round .
But as soon as she had spoken he *straightened* *himself* and his face assumed a proud and stern expression .
And at that instant the thought of what Serpukhovskoy had just been saying to him and of what had occurred to him that morning ( that it was better not to *bind* *himself* ) flashed through his mind , and he knew that he could not pass on the thought to her .
Stremov ( who was also on the Special Committee ) , stung to the quick , began *justifying* *himself* , and the meeting became quite a stormy one . But Karenin triumphed and his motion was carried ; three new Special Committees were formed , and the next day nothing was talked about in a certain Petersburg set but that meeting .
Although while preparing for this interview she had been *teaching* *herself* to despise and blame him , she did not know what to say , and pitied him . There was silence for some time .
Therefore I warn you that our relations must remain what they have been , and that if you *let* *yourself* be compromised I shall be obliged to take measures to safeguard my honour . '
The delight he had felt in the labour itself , occasioned by his having drawn nearer to the peasants , his jealousy of them , his envy of their life , his desire to adopt that kind of life ( which had not been a mere desire that night but a real intention , the details of which he had considered ) , all these things together had so changed his outlook on the working of his estate that he could no longer feel his former interest in the work , or help noticing the unpleasant relation to the labourer on which it was all based . Herds of cattle of an improved breed like Pava , the tilled land ploughed with good ploughs , the nine fields surrounded with willows , the hundreds of acres of deeply manured land , the seed drills and all such things , were splendid if they could be worked by *himself* *alone* or with the help of friends and people in sympathy with him .
Levin had long felt dissatisfied with his relation to the work on his estate . He had seen that the boat was leaking but had not found or looked for the leak , and perhaps had purposely *deceived* *himself* , for had he been disillusioned in that work , he would have had nothing left .
' That 's how it is , sir , ' said the old man , rising ; and after *crossing* *himself* several times he thanked Levin and went out .
Besides , at the bottom of his heart he wanted to *put* *himself* to the test and again to estimate his feelings for the girl .
The Sviyazhskys were friendly with Levin , and therefore he *allowed* *himself* to sound Sviyazhsky and try to get to the very foundation of his philosophy of life , but it was all in vain .
His discomfort *communicated* *itself* to the pretty sister , but the hostess did not seem to notice anything and purposely drew her sister into the conversation .
Sviyazhsky got down the books and *settled* *himself* in a rocking-chair .
Though at present Levin was more interested in agriculture than in anything else , he *asked* *himself* while listening to his host , ' What is there inside him ?
It was true that often when talking to the peasants , and explaining to them the advantages of the plan , Levin felt that they were only listening to the sound of his voice and were quite determined , whatever he might say , not to *let* *themselves* be taken in .
On the thirtieth of September the sun *showed* *itself* in the morning , and , in hopes of fine weather , Levin began seriously preparing for his departure .
An old inn-keeper , into whose house he had gone to *dry* *himself* , evidently approved of Levin 's plan and had offered to join a group to buy cattle .
I feel sure that Franklin felt just as insignificant and *distrusted* *himself* just as I do when he remembered his past .
Having dined , Levin as usual sat down in his easy-chair with a book , and while reading continued to think about his impending journey in connection with the book he was writing . To-day the importance of his work *presented* *itself* to him with especial clearness , and whole paragraphs of their own accord *shaped* *themselves* in his mind , expressing the gist of his thoughts .
When he met Agatha Mikhaylovna he joked with her and questioned her about the other old servants : The news of Parfen Denisich 's death affected him strangely . A look of fear appeared on his face but he immediately *recovered* *himself* .
Communists deny the justice of property , capital , or inheritance , while I do not deny that main stimulus ' ( it was repulsive to Levin to *find* *himself* using such words , but since he had been engrossed in his work he had involuntarily begun using more and more foreign words ) , ' but want only to regulate labour . '
Vronsky had a distinguished appearance , possessed the art of *carrying* *himself* with respectful dignity , and was in the habit of associating with people of that class .
The Prince enjoyed unusually good health even for a Prince , and by means of gymnastics and care of his body had developed his strength to such a degree that , in spite of the excess he indulged in when *amusing* *himself* , he looked as fresh as a big green shining cucumber .
But the chief reason why the Prince 's presence oppressed Vronsky was that he saw *himself* *reflected* in the Prince , and what he saw in that mirror was not flattering to his vanity .
Involuntarily submitting to Anna 's weakness , who , ready in advance to accept anything , *gave* *herself* up to him entirely and expected him to decide her fate , he had long ceased to imagine that their union could end in the way he had then expected .
His ambitious plans had receded to the background , and feeling that he had come out of the range of activity in which everything was definite , he completely *gave* *himself* up to his passion , and that passion bound him closer and closer to her .
These fits of jealousy which had lately begun to *repeat* *themselves* more and more frequently , horrified him and , however much he tried to hide the fact , they made him feel colder toward her , although he knew that the jealousy was caused by love for him .
How often he had *told* *himself* that to be loved by her was happiness ! and now that she loved him , as only a woman can for whom love outweighs all else that is good in life , he was much further from happiness than when he had followed her from Moscow .
Then he *thought* *himself* unhappy , but happiness was all in the future ; now he felt that the best happiness was already in the past .
And in my horror I tried to wake , but I woke still in a dream and began *asking* *myself* what it could mean , and Korney says to me : `` You will die in childbed , in childbed , ma 'am ... ''
And for the first time she felt for him and *put* *herself* for an instant in his place , and was sorry for him .
' He will be here in a moment , ' said the assistant , and in fact , a minute or two later , in the doorway appeared the long figure of an elderly jurisconsult who had been conferring with the lawyer , followed by the *lawyer* *himself* .
' Wo n't you take a seat ? ' He pointed to a chair beside a writing-table covered with papers , and *himself* *took* the principal seat , rubbing his little hands with their short fingers covered with white hair and bending his head to one side .
I should not venture so to *express* *myself* were I talking to a man of undeveloped mind , ' said the lawyer , ' but I expect it is comprehensible to you . '
The lawyer bowed deferentially , let his client pass out , and being left alone *abandoned* *himself* to his happy mood .
He announced , to the surprise of the Committee , that he would ask to be allowed to go and investigate the *matter* *himself* , and having received permission he started for the distant Provinces .
From the theatre Oblonsky went to the market , and *himself* *selected* the fish and asparagus for dinner ; and at noon he was already at Dusseaux 's Hotel , where he had to call on three people who , fortunately for him , had all put up at the same place . These were : Levin , who had only just returned from abroad ; a newly-appointed superior official who was making a tour of inspection in Moscow ; and Karenin , his brother-in-law , whom he wanted to secure for dinner .
Besides these he meant to ask the well-known crank and enthusiast Pestsov , a Liberal and a great talker , a musician and historian , and the dearest of fifty-year-old boys , who would serve as sauce or condiment to Koznyshev and Karenin - while *he* *himself* , Oblonsky , would stir them all up and set them by the ears .
In the depths of his soul he had felt sure that he should meet her that evening , but to maintain his freedom of thought he had tried to *assure* *himself* that he did not know it .
She was filled with joy , and that joy made her feel so confused that for a moment when , as he was approaching the hostess , he again glanced at her , *Kitty* *herself* , he , and Dolly all thought she would not be able to *control* *herself* but would burst into tears .
' I expect great strength is needed for bear-hunting , ' said Karenin , who had the vaguest notions about sport , as he *helped* *himself* to cheese and broke his slice of bread , cut as fine as a cobweb .
He *felt* *himself* at a height that made him giddy , and there , somewhere far below , were all these good excellent Karenins , Oblonskys , and the rest of the world .
' I am not expressing my opinion of either kind of education , ' replied Koznyshev , smiling at him condescendingly as at a child and holding out his glass . ' All I say is that both sides have weighty arguments in their favour , ' he continued *addressing* *himself* to Karenin .
Turovtsyn burst into loud laughter , and Koznyshev felt sorry he had not made that *remark* *himself* .
' Oh yes , an Englishman on board ship did once nurse his baby , ' said the old Prince , *allowing* *himself* this indelicacy in his daughters ' presence .
And with a kindly smile on his moist and rosy lips , he went on *addressing* *himself* chiefly to Karenin , the principal guest . ' Vasya Pryachnikov , as I was told to-day , has fought a duel with Kvitsky and killed him . '
He again made an attempt to draw his brother-in-law away , but Karenin *himself* *asked* with interest :
Dolly was firmly convinced of Anna 's innocence , and felt *herself* *growing* pale and her lips trembling from anger with this cold , unfeeling man who so calmly intended to ruin her innocent friend .
' It is difficult to make a mistake when a *wife* *herself* announces to her husband that eight years of married life and a son have all been an error , and that she wants to begin life from the beginning again , ' he said crossly , sniffing .
He *gave* *himself* a shake and began to speak in a loud and piercing voice .
Every one has trouble enough of his own ! ' And having *got* *himself* under control , Karenin quietly rose , said good-bye , and went away .
But before he had finished writing she read it under his hand , finished the *sentence* *herself* , and wrote the answer : ' Yes . '
They arrived at the Council , and Levin listened to the secretary haltingly reading an official report which he evidently did not *understand* *himself* , but from his face Levin saw what a nice , kind , and splendid fellow he was .
She had done everything she could - she had run up to him and *given* *herself* entirely , shyly , and joyfully .
She had *prepared* *herself* to meet him alone , and had rejoiced at the idea , yet had felt timid and bashful and had not known what she would do .
Without thinking or *asking* *herself* what next , she had come to him and acted as she had .
THE PRINCESS SAT IN HER ARMCHAIR silently smiling , and the Prince *seated* *himself* beside her .
' Well , you see , I do n't know at all ; I only expressed my wish , ' he said , to *excuse* *himself* .
He had now *mastered* *himself* and was able to speak , and there was much he had to say to her ; but what he said was not at all what he had intended .
He knew that between him and her there could and should be nothing secret , and therefore he decided that it was his duty , but he had not considered how the confession might affect her : he had not *put* *himself* in her place .
How was it they did not see that by giving him that post they were *ruining* *themselves* and their own prestige ?
Vronsky went away , but came again in the morning to inquire . Karenin met him in the ante-room and said : ' Remain here : she may ask for you , ' and *himself* *showed* him into Anna 's boudoir .
He felt ashamed , humiliated , guilty , and deprived of the possibility of *cleansing* *himself* from his degradation .
He felt *himself* *knocked* quite out of the rut along which he had hitherto trodden so proudly and so lightly .
Fancies , memories , and most strange thoughts followed one another with extreme rapidity and clearness : now he *saw* *himself* pouring out medicine for the patient and overfilling the spoon , then he saw the midwife 's white hands , or Karenin 's curious pose as he knelt on the floor by her bedside .
He stretched out his legs and again *threw* *himself* upon the sofa , in the same position as before , and shut his eyes .
' What is this ? Am I going mad ? ' he *asked* *himself* .
What else makes people go mad ? What makes them *shoot* *themselves* ? ' he replied to his own thought ; and opening his eyes he was surprised to see , close to his head , an embroidered cushion worked by Varya , his brother 's wife .
He rose from the sofa , took off his coat , loosened the strap , and , baring his shaggy chest to breathe more freely , walked across the room . ' That 's how one goes mad , ' he said again , ' and how one *shoots* *oneself* so as not to be ashamed , ' he concluded slowly .
He wished to *steady* *himself* by the table , dropped the revolver , reeled , and sat down on the floor , looking about him in astonishment .
He made an effort and understood that he was on the floor , and , seeing blood on the tiger-skin and on his hand , realized that he had tried to *shoot* *himself* .
In that smile also Karenin thought he *saw* *himself* and his position ridiculed .
He was vexed with his wife for not troubling about the charming baby , felt disinclined to go in and see her while in that frame of mind , and also disinclined to meet the Princess Betsy ; but his wife might think it strange if he did not come in as usual , and so he *mastered* *himself* and went to her bedroom .
' Yes , but you ca n't but wish to say good-bye to a man who tried to *shoot* *himself* for your sake ... '
Anna suddenly interrupted him , with an irritation she could not repress . ' No need whatever , ' she thought , ' for a man to come and take leave of a woman he loves , for whose sake he wanted to die and has *ruined* *himself* , a woman who can not live without him !
She was agitatedly toying with the tassels of her dressing-gown , glancing at him with that tormenting feeling of physical repulsion for which she *blamed* *herself* , but which she could not overcome .
' Forgive me , I am upset ! I am unjust , ' she went on , *controlling* *herself* .
' No , it ca n't go on like that , ' he *told* *himself* with conviction after leaving his wife .
You should *rouse* *yourself* , and look life straight in the face .
No one else in his place , having to deal with such despair , would have *permitted* *himself* to smile , for a smile would have appeared callous . But in his smile there was so much kindness and almost feminine tenderness that it was not offensive , but soothing and pacifying .
I feel that I am flying headlong over some precipice but must not even try to *save* *myself* .
Hard as it was for me to *assure* *myself* of this , I see that it is so , and there is no help for it .
I *submit* *myself* entirely to your wishes and sense of justice . '
' I am afraid she does not understand her *position* *herself* . She is no judge of it , ' replied Oblonsky , growing more composed .
To agree to a divorce - to give her her freedom - would mean , as he looked at it , to *deprive* *himself* of the only thing that bound him to life , the children he loved , and to deprive her of the last support on the path of virtue and cast her to perdition .
' I am not delirious ... Please arrange so that no one shall say that I *shot* *myself* on purpose . '
Despite these words and that smile , which greatly perturbed Varya , when the inflammation left him and he became convalescent he felt that he had *rid* *himself* entirely of one part of his grief .
That now , having atoned for his guilt toward her husband , he would be obliged to give her up and never *place* *himself* between her with her remorse and her husband , was clear to his mind ; but he could not eradicate from his heart a regret for the loss of her love - could not efface from his memory the moments of happiness he had known with her , moments he had valued so lightly , but the image of which with all their charm pursued him still .
His wound was quite healed and he went about making preparations for his journey to Tashkend . ' Only to see her once more , and then to *bury* *myself* , to die ! ' he thought , as he was making a round of farewell calls , and he expressed this thought to Betsy .
Next day Betsy *herself* *came* and announced that she had received , through Oblonsky , the definite news that Karenin consented to a divorce and that therefore Vronsky might see Anna .
Anna had *prepared* *herself* for this meeting and had thought about what she would say to him ; but she had no time to say any of it , seized by his passion .
His passion *communicated* *itself* to her .
But Oblonsky arranged that too . Levin began to *prepare* *himself* .
Again ' Lordvmercypons ! ' thought he , *crossing* *himself* , bowing , and watching the movements of the bowing deacon 's flexible back . ' Then she took my hand and examined the lines and said , `` You have a splendid hand ! '' and he glanced at the deacon 's stumpy hand and at his own .
When he was alone , Levin , thinking over the remarks of the three bachelors , once more *asked* *himself* whether there was in his soul any of that regret for his freedom that they had been speaking about .
Supposing she does not *herself* *know* what she is doing ? ' he *asked* *himself* . ' She might *bethink* *herself* and only when she is already married find out that she does not and never could love me ... '
Three minutes later Levin , not looking at the clock to avoid *upsetting* *himself* still more , ran as fast as he could down the corridor .
On the day when , in the ballroom of the house in Arbat Street , she in her brown dress had gone up to him and silently *plighted* *herself* to him , on that day and in that hour a complete rupture seemed to have taken place within her soul between her former life and this other new and entirely unknown life - although in fact the old life still went on .
' They say that one who has been best man more than ten times never marries , and I wanted to be one for the tenth time to *make* *myself* safe , but was too late , ' Count Sinyavin was saying to the pretty young Princess Charskaya , who had designs on him .
After the usual questions of whether they wished to be married and whether they had *promised* *themselves* to others , and their answers , which sounded strange to themselves , the second part of the service began .
Vronsky would never have thought he could be so pleased to see Golenishchev , but probably he was *himself* *unaware* how bored he was .
During the three months he had spent abroad with Anna , Vronsky when coming across new people had always *asked* *himself* how the new person would be likely to regard his relations with Anna , and in most cases he had found that the men he met understood it in the ' right ' way .
At bottom , those who in Vronsky 's opinion understood it the ' right ' way did not understand it in any special way , but behaved in general as well-bred persons do with regard to all the complicated and unanswerable problems which surround life on every side : they *conducted* *themselves* properly , avoiding insinuations and inconvenient questions .
What most displeased him was that Golenishchev , a man belonging to good Society , should *put* *himself* an the same level with certain scribblers who irritated him and made him angry .
With an effort Golenishchev *recollected* *himself* , but he was at first dejected and morose . Anna however , who at that time was amiably disposed to every one , soon revived him by her simple and cheerful behaviour .
She was not conscious of degradation . With the tact they both possessed , and by avoiding Russian ladies abroad , the two never *placed* *themselves* in a false position and always met people who pretended to understand their mutual relations much better than they themselves understood them .
Formerly , ' Golenishchev went on , either not noticing or not wishing to notice that both Anna and Vronsky wanted to speak , ' formerly a freethinker was a man brought up with ideas of religion , law , and morality , *who* *himself* , through struggle and pain , had attained freedom of thought ; hut now a new type of born freethinkers has appeared . These grow up without so much as hearing that there used to be laws of morality and religion , and that there was once authority in these things ; they grow up simply with the idea of negation - that is , as heathens .
Golenishchev *pulled* *himself* up and unwillingly agreed , but as the artist lived in a distant part of the town they decided to hire a carriage .
' Shut up , for heaven 's sake ! ' cried Mikhaylov with tears in his voice , stopping his ears with his hands as he went into his workroom behind a partition and locked the door behind him . ' What a duffer ! ' he muttered to himself as he *seated* *himself* at the table , and having opened a portfolio he at once set to work with particular ardour at an unfinished drawing .
He always attributed to those judges a better understanding than his own , and always expected to hear from them something he *had* *himself* not noticed in his work , often fancying that in their criticisms he had really found that something .
He was *himself* *unconscious* that as he approached them he seized and absorbed this impression , just as he had retained the tobacconist 's chin and hidden it away where he could find it when it was wanted .
And the most experienced and technical painter could never paint anything by means of mechanical skill alone , if the outline of the subject-matter did not first *reveal* *itself* to his mind .
At length , *tearing* *himself* away from it regretfully , he let the sheet fall over the picture and went home , tired but happy .
The same thing happened to him as to Golenishchev , who , feeling that he had nothing to express , continually *deceived* *himself* by saying that his thought had not yet ripened and that he was bringing it to maturity and preparing materials .
But Golenishchev was embittered and tormented by it , while Vronsky could not deceive and *torment* *himself* , and above all could not become embittered .
At every step he took he felt as a man would feel who , after admiring the smooth happy motion of a little boat upon the water , had *himself* *got* into the boat .
Without *herself* *knowing* why or wherefore , the management of the house attracted her irresistibly .
Levin had never thought it possible that between him and his wife there could ever be any but tender , respectful , and loving relations , and yet from the very beginning they had quarrelled : she had said he did not love her , but only *loved* *himself* , and began to cry and wave her arms .
For a moment he felt like a man who , receiving a blow from behind , angrily and revengefully turns round to find his assailant and realizes that he has accidentally *knocked* *himself* , that there is no one to be angry with and that he must endure and try to still the pain .
His natural feelings prompted him to *justify* *himself* and prove that she was in the wrong ; but to prove her in the wrong would mean irritating her still more , and widening the breach which was the cause of all the trouble .
To remain under so unjust an accusation was painful , but to *justify* *himself* and hurt her would be still worse .
In his heart he blamed her , but he did not understand that she was *preparing* *herself* for a period of activity which was inevitably coming , when at one and the same time she would be her husband 's wife , the mistress of the house , and a bearer , nurturer , and educator of her children .
He did not understand that , but she knew it instinctively ; and while getting ready for her gigantic task she did not *reproach* *herself* for the moments of careless and happy love that she now enjoyed while building her nest for the future .
Levin blushed with shame and vexation at his wife for having *placed* *herself* and him in this awkward position ; but Mary Nikolavna blushed still more .
He had expected to feel the same sorrow at the loss of a loved brother and the same horror of death he had then experienced , but to a greater degree , and had *prepared* *himself* for all this ; but what he found was quite different .
Taking advantage of the first moment of silence , Levin got up , wishing to *free* *himself* if only for a few minutes from his painful sensations , and said he would fetch his wife .
She sent for the doctor , sent to the chemist 's , made the maid she had brought with her help Mary Nikolavna sweep , dust , and wash ; and *herself* *washed* and scrubbed some articles and spread something under the blanket . At her command things were brought in and taken out of the sick-room .
The *invalid* *himself* , washed and with his hair brushed , lay between clean sheets in a clean shirt , its white collar round his abnormally thin neck , gazing with a new look of hope at Kitty and not taking his eyes off her .
He thought of the Gospel text not because he *considered* *himself* wise - he did not - but because he could not help knowing that he was more intelligent than his wife and Agatha Mikhaylovna ; he could not help knowing that when he thought about death he thought with all the powers of his soul .
He said , *addressing* *himself* to God , ' If Thou dost exist , heal this man ( such things have often happened ) , and Thou wilt save both him and me ! '
But you and I can not *deceive* *ourselves* like that !
Even the memories , impressions , and thoughts , within his body now aroused in him the same sort of repulsion as the *body* *itself* .
Those about him felt this , and unconsciously did not *permit* *themselves* either to move freely , talk or express their own wishes in his presence .
The prayers were not yet ended when the dying man *stretched* *himself* ; sighed and opened his eyes .
Scarcely had the unexplained mystery of death been enacted before his eyes when another mystery just as inexplicable *presented* *itself* , calling to love and life .
FROM THE MOMENT THAT KARENIN UNDERSTOOD from his conversations with Betsy and Oblonsky that all that was asked of him was that he should leave his wife in peace and not trouble her with his presence and that his *wife* *herself* wished this , he felt so lost that he could decide nothing for himself , did not know what he now wanted , and having *placed* *himself* in the hands of those who with so much pleasure *busied* *themselves* with his affairs , he consented to everything .
Had his wife then , after confessing her infidelity , left him , he would have been grieved and unhappy , but he would not have *felt* *himself* to be in such an unintelligible impasse as now .
But if you wish us to *address* *ourselves* to her Excellency , please be so good as to let us have her address ! '
He knew that the only way of escape from men was to hide his wounds from them . He had unconsciously tried to do so for two days , and now felt *himself* *unable* to continue the unequal struggle .
Having taken a medal on finishing , both at school and at the university , Karenin , by his uncle 's help , started at once on a conspicuous path in the Civil Service , and from that time *devoted* *himself* entirely to official ambition .
He could not think of that bill , made out on blue paper for a bonnet and ribbons , without *pitying* *himself* .
He was a believer , interested in religion chiefly from a political point of view , and this new teaching which *allowed* *itself* some novel interpretation , just because it paved the way for disputes and analyses , was repugnant to him on principle .
He saw nothing impossible or incongruous in the notion that death which exists for the unbeliever did not exist for him , and that as he possessed complete faith - of the measure of which *he* *himself* was the judge - there was no longer any sin in his soul , and he already experienced complete salvation here on earth .
But from the time she took Karenin under her special protection after his misfortune - from the time she *exerted* *herself* in his house , labouring for his welfare - she felt that all her other passions were unreal and that she now truly loved only Karenin .
She *caught* *herself* meditating on what might have been had she not married and had he been free .
I *address* *myself* to you , instead of to Alexis Alexandrovich , only because I do not wish to give pain to that high-minded man by reminding him of myself .
Then she had wished to *adorn* *herself* somehow , the more the better ; now , on the contrary , she was obliged to be adorned so unsuitably to her age and figure , that she was only concerned that the incongruity between these adornments and her own appearance should not be too dreadful .
Never having *occupied* *himself* with educational matters before , he devoted some time to studying the matter theoretically . After reading several books on anthropology , pedagogics , and didactics , he formed a plan of education , and having engaged the best Petersburg educationalist for supervision , he set to work .
' Well , now we can sit down quietly , ' said she with an agitated smile , as she *squeezed* *herself* in between the table and sofa , ' and have a chat over our tea . '
' But wherein am I to blame ? ' he *asked* *himself* , and as usual that question suggested another : Did those others - those Vronskys and Oblonskys and those fat-calved chamberlains - feel differently , love differently , marry differently ?
He drove these thoughts from him , and tried to *convince* *himself* that he was not living for the present temporal life but for eternal life , and that his soul was full of peace and love .
Why does he repulse me ? Why does he not love me ? ' he *asked* *himself* sadly , and could find no answer .
You see , if you take pains and learn in order to get a reward , the work will seem hard ; but when you work ' ( Karenin said this remembering how he had *sustained* *himself* that morning by a sense of duty in the dull task of signing a hundred and eighteen papers ) - ' if you love your work , you will find your reward in that . '
It was the same long-familiar tone in which his father always addressed him , and to which Serezha had already learnt to *adapt* *himself* .
He spent all the evening working , and dreaming how a windmill could be made on which one could ride , either by seizing one of the sails or by *tying* *oneself* to it and spinning round .
He did not think about his mother all the evening ; but when in bed he suddenly remembered her , and prayed in his own words that tomorrow , on his birthday , she should stop *hiding* *herself* and should come to him .
Despite all his experience of the world , Vronsky , in the new position in which he *found* *himself* , was making a terrible mistake .
Vronsky understood that it was vain to make any further attempts and that they would have to spend those few days in Petersburg as in a strange town , avoiding contact with their former world in order not to *lay* *themselves* open to unpleasantnesses and insults which were so painful to him .
She did not *ask* *herself* how she should contrive it .
It seemed to her natural and simple that she should see her son when she was in the same town with him . But on reaching Petersburg her present social position *presented* *itself* clearly to her , and she realized that it would be difficult to arrange the meeting .
To meet her son when he was out for a walk , after finding out when and where he went , was not enough : she had been *preparing* *herself* so for that meeting , had so much to say to him , and so much wanted to embrace and kiss him !
Never had she felt so humiliated as when , having called in the commissionaire , she heard from him the full account of how he had waited and had then been told that there would be no answer . Anna *felt* *herself* humiliated and wounded , but she saw that the Countess Lydia Ivanovna was right from her own point of view .
The Countess 's silence had made her feel humble , but the letter and what she read between its lines so irritated her , its malevolence seemed so revolting when compared with her passionate and legitimate love for her son , that she became indignant with others and ceased to *blame* *herself* .
Noticing the stranger 's confusion , Kapitonich *himself* *came* out , admitted her , and inquired what she wanted .
To the right of the door stood a bed on which sat the boy , his nightshirt unbuttoned , bending his little body backward , *stretching* *himself* and finishing his yawn .
He *raised* *himself* again on his elbow , moved his tousled head from side to side as if seeking for something , and opened his eyes .
Sleepily smiling with closed eyes , he moved his plump hands from the back of his bed to her shoulders , leaning against her and enveloping her in that sweet scent of sleepiness and warmth which only children possess , and began *rubbing* *himself* against her neck and shoulder .
' Mama ! Dearest , darling ! ' he shouted , again *throwing* *himself* upon her , and embracing her , as if he by now , having seen her smile , clearly realized what had happened .
' Oh , nurse dear , I did not know you were in the house , ' said Anna , *rousing* *herself* for a moment .
GREATLY AS ANNA HAD DESIRED TO SEE HER SON , and long as she had thought of and *prepared* *herself* for the interview , she had not at all expected that it would affect her so powerfully .
If I know it , then I know what I shall do , ' she *told* *herself* , powerless to imagine the position she would *find* *herself* in when she was convinced of his indifference .
And what is happening to her ? ' he *asked* *himself* .
The valet , conscious that he was not to blame , was about to *defend* *himself* , but , glancing at his master saw by his face that there was nothing for it but to keep silence ; so , stooping quickly , he knelt on the carpet and began sorting out the whole and broken glasses and bottles .
Serpukhovskoy had long ago ceased to *trouble* *himself* about Vronsky 's career , but was as fond of him as ever and was particularly amiable to him now .
Those who did not know her and her set , and heard none of the expressions of pity , indignation , or surprise uttered by the women because she had *allowed* *herself* to appear in public and to *show* *herself* so ostentatiously in her lace head-dress and in all her beauty , admired the composure and loveliness of the woman , and did not suspect that she felt as though pilloried .
He was disturbed both by vexation with Anna for *placing* *herself* and him in this false position , and by pity for her sufferings .
' I always buy dress materials for the *maids* *myself* , at the sales , ' the Princess said , continuing the conversation . ' Is it not time to take the scum off , my dear ? ' she added , turning to Agatha Mikhaylovna .
The exact reverse , ' she added , struck by her thought . ' Then Anna was so happy and Kitty *considered* *herself* miserable .
' No , but he is so used to living a purely spiritual life that he can not *reconcile* *himself* to realities , and , after all , Varenka is a reality ! '
She could not have expressed the sequence of thoughts that made her smile , but the last deduction was that her husband , in extolling his brother and *depreciating* *himself* , was not quite sincere .
How can you jump so ! ' he said , interrupting the conversation to rebuke her for making too quick a movement while stepping over a branch that lay across the path . ' But when I *examine* *myself* and *compare* *myself* with others , especially with my brother , I feel how bad I am . '
His sense of pleasure at her nearness went on increasing until it reached a point where , when placing in her basket an enormous wood mushroom with a thin stem and up-curling top , he looked into her eyes and , noting the flush of joyful and frightened agitation that suffused her face , he *himself* *became* embarrassed and gave her a smile that said too much .
' If it is so , I must think it over and come to a decision , and not *let* *myself* be carried away like a boy by the impulse of the moment , ' he *told* *himself* .
But it is nothing of the kind . The one thing I can find against it is that when I lost Marie I *told* *myself* that I would remain true to her memory .
But he came of a long-lived race , he had not a single grey hair , no one thought he was forty , and he remembered that Varenka had said it was only in Russia that men of fifty *considered* *themselves* old , and that in France a man of fifty *considered* *himself* dans la force de l 'ge , [ In the prime of life . ] while one of forty was un jeune homme .
Varenka 's heart beat so that she seemed to hear it , and she felt *herself* *growing* red and then pale and red again .
They did not know that pleasant as it was for her to stay with her daughter and necessary as she *felt* *herself* to be there , she suffered keenly , both on her own and on her husband 's account , since they gave their last and favourite daughter in marriage and the family nest was left empty .
Levin offered to replace her , but having once heard Levin giving the lesson and noticing that he was not doing it the same way as the master who had coached the boy in Moscow , she - though embarrassed and anxious not to offend Levin - told him resolutely that the text-book must be followed in the master 's way and that she would rather give the *lessons* *herself* .
Levin was vexed with Oblonsky for carelessly leaving it to the boy 's mother to look after his lessons which she did not understand , instead of doing *it* *himself* , and he was vexed with the masters also for teaching the children so badly ; but he promised his sister-in-law to give the lessons in the way she wished .
' Well , is there any game ? ' asked Oblonsky of Levin scarcely *giving* *himself* time to say a word of greeting to everybody . ' He and I have the cruellest intentions ...
' It 's very nice at their place , ' Vasenka was saying , talking of Vronsky and Anna . ' Of course I do not take it upon myself to judge , but in their house one *feels* *oneself* to be in a family . '
Already he *fancied* *himself* a deceived husband , necessary to his wife and her lover only to provide them with the comforts of life and with pleasures ...
Happily for Levin the old Princess put a stop to his sufferings by *herself* *getting* up and advising Kitty to go to bed .
He stood before her , his eyes glittering terribly under his frowning brows , and pressed his powerful arms to his breast , as if trying with all his might to *restrain* *himself* .
' Come , Kostya , you are exaggerating ! ' remonstrated Kitty , at the bottom of her heart pleased by the force of love for her which was now *expressing* *itself* in his jealousy .
How could I *torture* *myself* like that about such nonsense ? '
Levin jumped down from the cart where he had already *seated* *himself* , to meet the carpenter who was approaching with a sazhen measure in his hand .
' If only I do n't *disgrace* *myself* before that stranger ! If only Oblonsky 's shooting does not beat mine ! ' was his thought .
Levin *himself* *felt* inclined to stop at those little places , but , as they were near home , they were always within his reach and they were small , so that there was not room enough for three persons to shoot there .
But when heated with the work , and seeing Veslovsky pulling at the splashboard so strenuously and zealously that he actually wrenched it off , Levin *reproached* *himself* with being influenced by his sentiments of the previous day and with treating Veslovsky too coldly , and he tried to efface his unfriendliness by particular courtesy .
When they got to the real marsh , the object of their journey , Levin involuntarily wished to *rid* *himself* of Vasenka and go about unhindered .
They kept rising before the dogs and at the very feet of the sportsmen , and Levin might have *recovered* *himself* ; but the oftener he fired the more he *disgraced* *himself* before Veslovsky , who was puffing away merrily , in and out of range , never killing anything , but not in the least abashed thereby .
' No ! I must *pull* *myself* together , ' he thought , picked up his gun and hat , called Laska to heel , and got out of the marsh .
Despite the dirtiness of the hut , soiled by the sportsmen 's boots , the dirty dogs that were *licking* *themselves* there , and despite the smell of bog and of powder and the absence of knives and forks , the sportsmen drank tea and ate supper with a relish known only when one is out shooting .
Washed and clean they *betook* *themselves* to a half-barn that had been swept out and where the coachman had made up beds for the gentlemen .
Down , Krak ! ' exclaimed Oblonsky to the dog that was *scratching* *itself* and turning round in the hay .
' If only one could ... go without getting up ! ' said Oblonsky , *stretching* *himself* . ' It 's delightful to lie still . '
It seemed to him that he had expressed his thoughts and feelings as clearly as he could , yet both the others - sincere and not stupid men - had agreed that he was *comforting* *himself* with sophistry .
The words he had used when he said he was acting justly in a negative sense occupied his mind . ' Is it possible that one can act justly only in a negative sense ? ' he *asked* *himself* .
' Do n't I see how you have *placed* *yourself* with your wife ?
He heard his horses chewing hay ; then how the master and his eldest son got ready and rode away for the night to pasture their horses ; then how the soldier settled down to sleep on the other side of the barn with his nephew , their host 's little son ; he heard the boy in his treble voice imparting to his uncle his impressions of the dogs , which seemed to him terrible and enormous ; then how the boy asked what those dogs were going to catch , and he heard how the soldier replied in a hoarse and sleepy voice that the sportsmen would go next day to the marshes and fire guns , adding , to stop the questioning : ' Sleep , Vaska , sleep , or else look out ! ' Soon the *soldier* *himself* began to snore , and all was still except for the neighing of the horses and the cry of snipe .
Crows were flying to the fields , and a barefooted boy was already driving the horses toward an old man , who had got up from beneath his coat and sat *scratching* *himself* .
He must say something to the mistress of the house , ' Levin *told* *himself* .
Whether there was something unusual in Levin 's face , or whether Vasenka *himself* *felt* that ' le petit brin de cour ' which he had started was out of place in this family , he was embarrassed ( as far as is permissible to a man in Society ) by Levin 's entry .
Vasenka *drew* *himself* up .
He himself felt not only that he was in the highest degree ridiculous , but quite guilty and disgraced ; but recalling what he and his wife had suffered , and *asking* *himself* how he would act another time , he answered that he would do just the same again .
I myself , without having a moment 's peace , now pregnant , now nursing , always cross and grumbling , *tormenting* *myself* and others , repulsive to my husband - I shall live my life , and produce unfortunate , badly brought-up and beggared children .
So I ca n't even give the children a *start* *myself* , unless it 's with other people 's help and with humiliation .
I was still attractive then , still had my good looks , ' she went on , feeling that she wanted to *see* *herself* in a glass .
At Anna 's side , on a heated bay cavalry horse , stretching out his fat legs and evidently *admiring* *himself* , rode Vasenka Veslovsky , wearing the Scotch bonnet with waving ribbons , and Dolly could not repress a merry smile on recognizing him .
' Yes , quite big , ' answered Dolly shortly , and was *herself* *surprised* that she could talk so coldly about her children . ' We are very comfortable at the Levins ' , ' she added .
She was ashamed of the very patches and darns on which she at home *prided* *herself* .
A Russian nursemaid was feeding the child and evidently *herself* *eating* also .
On hearing Anna 's voice a smart tall Englishwoman with an unpleasant face and an impure look came into the room , rapidly shaking her fair curls , and at once began *excusing* *herself* , though Anna had not accused her of anything .
Glancing round at the grown-up people with her large radiant black eyes , like a little animal , evidently pleased that she was being admired , she smiled , and turning out her feet , energetically *supported* *herself* on her hands , drew her lower limbs forward , and then again advanced her hands .
Dolly was somewhat embarrassed and troubled by the quite novel circle she *found* *herself* in .
Shall we go ? ' he suggested , glancing at her face to *assure* *himself* that she really was not bored .
Everything interested Dolly and everything pleased her , especially *Vronsky* *himself* with his natural and naive enthusiasm . ' Yes , he is a very nice , good fellow , ' she thought again and again , not listening to him but looking at him , understanding his expression , and mentally *putting* *herself* in Anna 's place .
As soon as they had passed through the gate back into the garden , he glanced in the direction Anna had taken , and having *assured* *himself* that she could not hear or see them , he began .
' Well , to continue ! ' he said , *recovering* *himself* . ' The principal thing is that when working I want the assurance that the work will not die with me , that I shall have heirs ; and that I have not got .
' Well , this brings me to the point of my talk , ' he went on , *calming* *himself* with an effort . ' Anna can do it ; . it depends on her ...
But how is it *she* *herself* does not think of it ? ' asked Dolly , suddenly remembering that strange new habit Anna had of screwing up her eyes . And she remembered that it was just when the intimate side of life was in question that Anna screwed up her eyes .
We have *dirtied* *ourselves* on the buildings . '
The ladies rose ; Vronsky asked Sviyazhsky to take in Anna , and *himself* *went* up to Dolly .
Dolly observed all this luxury , which was new to her , and , as a housewife *herself* *controlling* a household , she could not help noting the details ( though she had no hope of putting what she observed to practical use in her own home , so far was such luxury above her way of life ) and *asking* *herself* how it was all done and by whom .
He , as well as the other men , had with the ladies ' permission taken off his coat , and his large handsome figure in white shirt-sleeves , his ruddy perspiring face and impetuous movements , *stamped* *themselves* on the memories of the onlookers .
She had come with the intention of staying two days if she could *adapt* *herself* to the life .
She wanted to reproduce the arguments with which she had so often *convinced* *herself* .
She rose , *drew* *herself* up , sighed deeply , and with her light steps began pacing up and down the room , pausing occasionally . ' I not consider it ?
But what would it mean ? ' said Anna , evidently expressing a thought she had considered a thousand times and knew by heart . ' It means that I , who hate him but yet *acknowledge* *myself* to blame toward him - and I do think him magnanimous - I must *humiliate* *myself* by writing to him ... !
She had pitied Anna from the bottom of her heart while they were talking ; but now she could not *make* *herself* think about her .
When they had driven into the fields Dolly experienced a pleasant feeling of relief , and she was about to ask the men how they had liked the Vronskys ' place , when suddenly Philip the *coachman* *himself* remarked :
As time went on , the oftener he felt *himself* *caught* in these meshes the more he desired , not exactly to escape from them but to try whether they really interfered with his freedom .
It was autumn , the dullest and most depressing time of year in the country , and so Vronsky , *bracing* *himself* for a struggle , announced his departure in a sterner and colder way than he had ever before used to Anna .
However , Levin had changed considerably since his marriage ; he had become patient , and if he did not understand why things were arranged thus , he *told* *himself* that , not knowing everything , he could not judge , and that probably things had to be so ; and he tried not to be indignant .
He was demanding the very thing Koznyshev was proposing ; but he evidently hated Koznyshev and his party , and this hatred *communicated* *itself* to all those on his side , and in turn evoked a similar , though more decently expressed , feeling of conflicting anger from the opposing party .
But the old party did not *consider* *itself* defeated .
Whether those tears resulted from a consciousness of injustice done him , or from love for the Nobility , or from the strained situation in which he *found* *himself* , surrounded by enemies , at any rate his emotion *communicated* *itself* . The majority of the nobles were touched and Levin felt a tenderness for Snetkov .
The elections themselves interested him so much that he began to think that if he were married by the next triennial election he would *himself* *put* up , just as , when a jockey had won him a prize , he had wished to ride a *race* *himself* .
Nevedovsky pretended not merely to be indifferent to but to despise this title ; but it was evident that he felt happy and exercised self-control to avoid betraying a delight ill-suited to the new Liberal circle in which they *found* *themselves* .
I wished to *come* *myself* , but changed my mind knowing that you would not like it .
Baby was ill , and she wished to *come* *herself* ?
True , there was one means , not of holding him - for that purpose she wished for nothing except his love - but of *putting* *herself* in such a position that he could not abandon her .
' And you ? ' he asked , *giving* *himself* a shake .
' It was such a strange letter . Annie was ill , yet you wished to *come* *yourself* ! '
Daily expecting Karenin 's reply , to be followed by a divorce , they now *established* *themselves* like a married couple .
The only thing Kitty could *reproach* *herself* with when that visit was over was that for an instant , on recognizing Vronsky 's once so familiar figure in his civilian clothes , she grew breathless , the blood rushed to her heart , and she felt a deep flush suffusing her face .
A stranger arrives , sits down , remains a while doing nothing , disturbs them , *upsets* *himself* , and goes away again . '
But afterwards , having *convinced* *himself* that they looked at the question so differently that they would never understand one another , he ceased making objections and merely listened .
He liked this phrase , but could not remember whether he had not used it before , and to *Pestsov* *himself* , and after saying it he grew embarrassed .
' Of course it 's all the same to me , but still it makes one ashamed , and it 's awfully stupid , ' thought Levin , *comforting* *himself* with the reflection that everybody does it ; and he went on to the meeting of the committee where he had to meet his sister-in-law in order to accompany her to his own home .
The military man , with merry , ever-laughing eyes , who *held* *himself* very erect , was Gagin , from Petersburg .
Only for the first few moments , while they were leaving the courtyard of the club , did Levin retain that sense of club calm , pleasure , and undoubted decorum in his surroundings ; but as soon as the carriage had passed out into the street and he felt it jolting on the uneven road , heard the angry shouts of an izvoshchik they met , saw in the ill-lit street the red signboards of a vodka dealer and of a small shop , that sense was dissipated , and he began to consider his actions and to *ask* *himself* whether he was doing right in going to see Anna .
She is writing a children 's book and does not speak of it to anyone , but she read it to me and I showed the manuscript to Vorkuyev ... You know , the publisher ... he *writes* *himself* , I think .
While Oblonsky passed behind a screen of trellis-work - and the man 's voice that had been speaking became silent - Levin looked at the portrait , which in the bright illumination seemed to step out of its frame , and he could not *tear* *himself* away from it .
Levin flushed , and to hide his confusion was about to ask her if it was long since she had seen Dolly , but at that instant Anna *herself* *began* to speak .
' What a woman ! ' thought Levin , and , quite *forgetting* *himself* , he gazed fixedly at her beautiful mobile face , which had now suddenly quite changed .
They are very nice children , but I could not *attach* *myself* to the work .
She asked Levin and Vorkuyev to pass on into the drawing-room , and *herself* *remained* behind to speak to her brother . ' About the divorce ?
' It 's surprising how all one 's time gets taken up here , ' he thought with reference to the second letter . He *felt* *himself* to blame because he had not yet done what his sister asked of him .
All the events had consisted of conversations : conversations to which he had listened or in which he had taken part . All these conversations were about matters he would never have *occupied* *himself* with had he been in the country , but here they were very interesting .
' Oh no ! ' she said , but he saw by her eyes the effort she made to *control* *herself* , and it boded him no good .
I *restrain* *myself* , wait , invent occupations for myself , - the English family , writing , reading , but all that is only deception , it is all a kind of morphia .
She might *pity* *herself* , but he must not pity her .
' Nothing , nothing ! ' she replied . ' I do n't *know* *myself* whether it is this lonely life , or nerves ...
THERE ARE NO CONDITIONS OF LIFE to which a man can not *accustom* *himself* , especially if he sees that every one around him lives in the same way .
Three months previously Levin would not have believed that he could quietly fall asleep under the circumstances in which he now *found* *himself* : that while leading an aimless , senseless life , one moreover that was above his means , after tippling ( he could call what had happened in the club by no other name ) , after showing unsuitable friendship to the man with whom his wife had once been in love , and after a still more unsuitable visit to a woman who could only be called a fallen woman , and after being allured by her and having grieved his wife - that in such circumstances he could quietly fall asleep .
It was necessary for him to go , but he could not *tear* *himself* away from the sight of her : He had loved that face and known all its expressions and looks , but he had never seen her as she was now .
He stopped at the door and heard Kitty give detailed instructions to the maid , and with her help *herself* *move* the bed .
To whom should he appeal , if not to Him in whose hands he *felt* *himself* , his soul , and his love , to be ?
This attention to his glasses and indifference to what was taking place at the Levins ' astonished Levin at first , but he immediately *recollected* *himself* and realized that no one knew or was bound to know his feelings , and that it was therefore all the more necessary to act calmly , deliberately , and firmly in order to break through this wall of indifference and to attain his aim . ' Do not hurry and do not omit anything , ' he said to himself , conscious of an increasing uplift of his physical powers and of his attention to all that lay before him .
Trying to be as exact as possible , Levin began recounting every unnecessary detail of his wife 's position , continually *interrupting* *himself* to beg the doctor to accompany him at once .
From the moment when he woke up and understood what was the matter Levin had *braced* *himself* to endure what might await him , without reasoning and without anticipating anything - firmly suppressing all his thoughts and feelings , determined not to upset his wife but on the contrary to calm and support her .
Not *allowing* *himself* even to think of what was about to happen and how it would end , judging by inquiries he had made as to the time such affairs usually lasted , Levin mentally *prepared* *himself* to endure and to keep his heart under restraint for something like five hours , which seemed to him within his power .
But after that hour another passed , a second , a third , and all the five hours that he had *set* *himself* as the longest term of possible endurance , and still the situation was unchanged ; and he went on enduring , for there was nothing else to do but to endure - thinking every moment that he had reached the utmost limit of endurance and that in a moment his heart would burst with pity .
And every time when the screams that came from the bedroom roused him from momentary forgetfulness he succumbed to the same strange error that had possessed him in the first moments : every time , on hearing the scream , he jumped up and ran to *justify* *himself* , but recollected on the way that he was not to blame and that he longed to protect and help her .
And suddenly , out of the mysterious , terrible , and unearthly world in which he had been living for the last twenty-two hours , Levin *felt* *himself* instantaneously transported back to the old everyday world , but now radiant with the light of such new joy that it was insupportable .
And amid the silence , as a positive answer to the mother 's question , a voice quite unlike all the restrained voices that had been speaking in the room *made* *itself* heard .
He could not at all *accustom* *himself* to the idea .
Levin listened to them and at the same time involuntarily thought of the past and of what had been going on before that morning , *remembering* *himself* as he had been yesterday before this event .
He talked but never ceased thinking of his wife , of the details of her present condition , and of his son - to the idea of whose existence he painstakingly tried to *accustom* *himself* .
Kitty turned her eyes and gazed fixedly in the same direction . ' Let me have him , let me have him ! ' she said , and was even going to *raise* *herself* .
I *address* *myself* to you not as ... ' He was going to say , ' as an offended husband , ' but , afraid of injuring his case thereby , he changed the expression to ' not as a statesman ' ( this sounded inappropriate ) ' but simply as a man , a kind man and a Christian !
' For heaven 's sake do n't *excite* *yourself* , ' said Oblonsky , touching his brother-in-law 's knee . ' The matter is not closed .
She appreciated it to such a degree that , at the moment , *feeling* *herself* to blame toward you , she did not consider and could not consider everything .
He knew that his father and mother had had a quarrel which separated them ; knew that it was his fate to remain with his father , and he tried to *accustom* *himself* to that thought .
The others all *harness* *themselves* to it - they may do it with their hands or their belts - and then off they go through all the rooms .
' I expect you *hurt* *yourself* when you fell down ? ' said the tutor . ' I told you it was a dangerous game .
' If I had *hurt* *myself* no one would have known it , that is quite certain ! '
Besides business - his sister 's divorce and his post - it was as usual necessary for him , as he said , to *refresh* *himself* in Petersburg after the mustiness of Moscow .
In Moscow he sometimes noticed some grey hairs ; fell asleep after dinner ; *stretched* *himself* ; walked slowly upstairs , breathing heavily ; felt dull among young women , and did not dance at balls .
In Moscow he *let* *himself* go to such an extent that , had he continued to live there long , he might even have come to the soul-saving stage ; but in Petersburg he again felt quite a smart fellow .
Lydia Ivanovna rapidly read the note and , *excusing* *herself* , with extreme rapidity wrote and despatched the answer and returned to the table . ' I have noticed , ' she continued her interrupted sentence , ' that Muscovites , men especially , are most indifferent to religion . '
He smoothed his whiskers to hide the yawn , and *gave* *himself* a shake .
But then he felt *himself* *falling* asleep , and nearly snored .
He *roused* *himself* , just when the Countess Lydia Ivanovna uttered the words : ' He is asleep . '
He went up to the Frenchman and placed his hand in his . Oblonsky also rose and , opening his eyes wide to *wake* *himself* up in case he was asleep , looked first at one and then at the other .
It was an inner irritation , caused on her side by a diminution of his love for her , and on his by regret that for her sake he had *placed* *himself* in a distressing situation , which she , instead of trying to alleviate , made still harder .
To-day he had been away from home all day , and she had felt so lonely , and it was so painful to *feel* *herself* at discord with him , that she wished to forget it all , to forgive and make it up with him . Wishing even to *blame* *herself* and to justify him , she said to herself :
It was no longer the Queen of Sweden 's instructress but the Princess Sorokina who lived in the country near Moscow with the Countess Vronskaya who *presented* *herself* to Anna 's imagination .
For a moment she *recollected* *herself* and was horrified at having broken her resolution .
Yet though she knew she was ruining her cause , she could not *restrain* *herself* , could not forbear pointing out to him how wrong he was , and could not submit to him .
And standing before her he slowly brought out : ' Why are you testing my patience ? ' He looked as if he could have said much more , but *restrained* *himself* .
' But how ? ' she *asked* *herself* , and sat down in the arm-chair before the looking-glass .
Thoughts of where she would now go : to the aunt who had brought her up , to Dolly , or simply abroad by herself ; of what he was now doing , alone in the study ; of whether this quarrel was final or whether a reconciliation was still possible ; of what all her former Petersburg acquaintances would say of her now ; how Karenin would regard it ; and many other thoughts about what would happen now after the rupture , passed through her mind , but she did not *give* *herself* up entirely to these thoughts .
' You *know* *yourself* ? ' said she , and at the same moment , unable to *restrain* *herself* any longer , she burst into tears .
' Anna , why *torture* *yourself* and me like this ? ' he said , kissing her hands .
' Oh no , I shall not be *ready* *myself* , ' she said , and immediately thought : ' So it was possible to arrange things as I wished ! ' - ' No , do as you wished to . Go to the dining-room , I will come directly .
' I never *asked* *myself* , Anna Arkadyevna , whether I am sorry or not .
In the morning a terrible nightmare , which had come to her several times even before her union with Vronsky , *repeated* *itself* and woke her . An old man with a tangled beard was leaning over some iron and doing something , while muttering senseless words in French ; and as always in that nightmare ( this was what made it terrible ) she felt this peasant was paying no attention to her but was doing something dreadful to her with the iron .
She could not now understand how she could have *humiliated* *herself* so as to remain a whole day with him in his house .
Alarmed by the despairing look with which she had said these words , he jumped up , intending to run after her , but , *recollecting* *himself* , he sat down again , tightly clenching his teeth and frowning .
Oh ! And did I brush my hair or not ? ' she *asked* *herself* ; but could not remember .
' But what shall I *do* *myself* ? ' she thought . ' Yes I will go to Dolly 's , of course , or else I shall go out of my mind !
' Yes , I will go , ' said Anna , recovering and *rousing* *herself* ; ' and if a telegram comes during my absence , send it to Darya Alexandrovna 's ...
She *reproached* *herself* now with the humiliation to which she had descended . ' I entreated him to forgive me .
He may have missed the train and be back already . Wanting to *humiliate* *yourself* again ! ' she said to herself .
And of me he thinks with hate and regrets having *joined* *himself* to me ! '
She attributed that animosity to the awkward position Anna , who had formerly patronized her , now *felt* *herself* to be in , and she was sorry for her .
ANNA *RESEATED* *HERSELF* IN THE CALCHE in a state of mind even worse than when she left home .
I do n't even *know* *myself* ! "
They are ringing for vespers , and how carefully that tradesman is *crossing* *himself* , as if he were afraid of dropping something !
' I shall have time . ' She gave the order to harness another pair of horses , and *busied* *herself* packing her handbag with things necessary for a few days .
He is weary of me and is trying not to act dishonourably toward me . Yesterday he *betrayed* *himself* - he wants the divorce and a marriage in order to burn his boats .
For me everything centres in him , and I demand that he should *give* *himself* up to me more and more completely .
No ! ' she now *answered* *herself* without the least hesitation . ' It is impossible !
Are we not all flung into the world only to hate each other , and therefore to *torment* *ourselves* and others ?
She mounted the high step of the railway carriage and *seated* *herself* in an empty compartment on the dirty - though once white - cover of the spring seat .
At last the third bell rang , the engine whistled and creaked , the coupling chains gave a jerk , and the husband *crossed* *himself* . ' It would be interesting to ask him what he means by it , ' thought Anna , regarding him spitefully .
At the point that I can not imagine a situation in which life would not be a torment ; that we all have been created in order to suffer , and that we all know this and all try to invent means of *deceiving* *ourselves* .
And glancing at the red-cheeked husband and his thin wife , she saw that the sickly wife *considered* *herself* misunderstood , and that the husband deceived her and encouraged her in her opinion of herself .
A feeling seized her like that she had experienced when preparing to enter the water in bathing , and she *crossed* *herself* .
The familiar gesture of making the sign of the cross called up a whole series of girlish and childish memories , and suddenly the darkness , that obscured everything from her , broke , and life *showed* *itself* to her for an instant with all its bright past joys .
But she did not take her eyes off the wheels of the approaching second truck , and at the very moment when the midway point between the wheels drew level , she threw away her red bag , and drawing her head down between her shoulders *threw* *herself* forward on her hands under the truck , and with a light movement as if preparing to rise again immediately dropped on her knees .
She wished to rise , to *throw* *herself* back , but something huge and relentless struck her on the head and dragged her down . ' God forgive me everything ! ' she said , feeling the impossibility of struggling ...
' Did not I offend him in some way ? ' he *asked* *himself* .
Discussions in drawing-rooms , at meetings , at assemblies , in committees , and everywhere where one could speak , took up part of his time ; but , as an habitual town-dweller , he did not *allow* *himself* to be entirely absorbed by discussions , as his inexperienced brother did when he was in Moscow ; so he had much superfluous leisure and mental energy .
Fortunately for him , at this most trying time , after the failure of his book , in place of the questions of Dissent , our American friends , the Samara Famine , the Exhibitions , and Spiritualism , the Slavonic question - which had previously only smouldered in Society - came to the front , and Koznyshev , who had previously been one of the promoters of that cause , *devoted* *himself* to it entirely .
He *devoted* *himself* completely to the service of that great movement and forgot to think about his book .
You know , les petites misres de la vie humaine , ' [ The little miseries of human life . ] he said to the Princess , as if to *excuse* *himself* . ' And the Princess Myagkaya , not Lisa but Bibish , is really sending a thousand rifles and twelve nurses !
Not only is he *going* *himself* , but he is taking a whole squadron at his own expense . '
He knew what a military man ought to be , and by the appearance and talk of those men , and by the swagger with which they *applied* *themselves* to their flasks on the way , he considered them bad soldiers .
We took away everything that he could *kill* *himself* with . We lived on the ground floor , but one could not tell what he might do .
You know he had once before *shot* *himself* on her account ? ' she said , and the old woman 's brows knit at the recollection . ' Yes , she ended as such a woman deserved to end .
In the evening I had only just gone to my room when my Mary told me that at the station a lady had *thrown* *herself* under a train .
Well , she proved it ! She *ruined* *herself* and two splendid men - her husband and my unfortunate son . '
But my poor son had *given* *himself* up to her entirely .
No , say what you will , her *death* *itself* was the death of a horrid woman , without religion .
Having twice walked past the sacks and *mastered* *himself* , he turned calmly to Koznyshev :
I was so busy that I did not know when I could *tear* *myself* away .
' Yes , yes ! Hush ! ... ' was all Kitty answered as she sat softly *rocking* *herself* and tenderly pressing the little plump arm , which looked as if a thread had been tied round the wrist , and was still feebly waving while Mitya kept shutting and opening his eyes .
He *says* *himself* that he would like to believe .
What astounded and upset him most in this connection , was that the majority of those in his set and of his age , having like *himself* *replaced* their former beliefs by new convictions like his own ; did not see anything to be distressed about , and were quite contented and tranquil . So that , besides the principal question , Levin was tormented by other questions : Were these people sincere ?
Latterly in Moscow and in the country , having *convinced* *himself* that he could get no answer from the materialists , he read through and re-read Plato , Spinoza , Kant , Schelling , Hegel , and Schopenhauer , those philosophers who explained life otherwise than materialistically .
Their thoughts seemed to him fruitful when he read , or was himself devising refutations of other teachings , the materialistic in particular ; but as soon as he began reading , or *himself* *devised* , solutions to life 's problems , the same thing occurred every time .
' In an infinity of time , and in infinity of matter , in infinite space , a bubble , a bubble organism , *separates* *itself* , and that bubble *maintains* *itself* awhile and then bursts , and that bubble is - I ! '
It was the latest belief . It was the ruling conviction and from among all other explanations Levin , without *himself* *knowing* when or how , had involuntarily chosen it as being at any rate the clearest of all .
And though he was a happy and healthy family man , Levin was several times so near to suicide that he hid a cord he had lest he should *hang* *himself* , and he feared to carry a gun lest he should *shoot* *himself* .
But he did not hang or *shoot* *himself* and went on living .
WHEN LEVIN THOUGHT about what he was and why he lived , he could find no answer and was driven to despair ; but when he left off *asking* *himself* those questions he seemed to know what he was and why he lived , for he acted and lived unfalteringly and definitely - recently even more unfalteringly than before .
Formerly ( it had been so almost from childhood and increasingly so till his complete maturity ) when he tried to do anything for the good of everybody , for humanity , for Russia , for the whole village , he had noticed that the thoughts of it were agreeable , but the *activity* *itself* was always unsatisfactory ; there was no full assurance that the work was really necessary , and the activity itself , which at first seemed so great , ever lessened and lessened till it vanished .
But now since his marriage , when he began to *confine* *himself* more and more to living for himself , though he no longer felt any joy at the thought of his activity , he felt confident that his work was necessary , saw that it progressed far better than formerly , and that it was always growing more and more .
Having lived most of his life in the country and in close contact with the peasants , Levin always felt , at this busy time , that this general stimulation of the peasants *communicated* *itself* to him .
Levin went up to the roller , motioned Theodore aside and *himself* *began* feeding the machine .
' What have I discovered ? ' he *asked* *himself* , turning back the leaf that it should not hinder the insect and bending another blade for the creature to pass on to .
I have *freed* *myself* from deception and learnt to know my Master .
Having then for the first time clearly understood that before every man , and before himself , there lay only suffering , death , and eternal oblivion , he had concluded that to live under such conditions was impossible ; that one must either explain life to oneself so that it does not seem to be an evil mockery by some sort of devil , or one must *shoot* *oneself* .
' But can I believe in all that the Church professes ? ' he *asked* *himself* , *testing* *himself* by everything which might destroy his present peace of mind .
They bring their-mites , or *go* *themselves* , and say straight out why they do it .
Twenty years ago we should have been silent , but now we hear the voice of the Russian people , who are ready to arise as one man and to *sacrifice* *themselves* for their oppressed brethren .
' But it 's not a question of *sacrificing* *themselves* only , but of killing Turks , ' remarked Levin timidly . ' The people sacrifice and are ready to sacrifice for the good of their souls , but not for murder , ' he added , involuntarily connecting the conversation with the thoughts that so engrossed him .
He saw that it was not possible to convince his brother and Katavasov , and still less did he see any possibility of *himself* *agreeing* with them .
He could not agree with this , because he neither saw the expression of those thoughts in the people among whom he lived , nor did he find any such thoughts in himself ( and he could not *consider* *himself* as other than one of those who constituted the Russian people ) . Above all , he could not agree because he , together with the people , did not know and could not know wherein lay the general welfare , but knew definitely that the attainment of this welfare was only possible by a strict fulfilment of the law of goodness which is revealed to every man , and therefore could not desire or preach war for any kind of general aims .
We had hardly ... ' Kitty began *excusing* *herself* .
Now it was not as it used to be with him when he. had invented ways of *tranquillizing* *himself* and had been obliged to recapitulate the whole train of reflections in order to arrive at the feeling .
' Well , what is perplexing me ? ' Levin *asked* *himself* , feeling in advance that the solution of his doubts , though as yet unknown to him , was already in his soul .
' Is it possible that those hundreds of millions of people are deprived of that highest blessing , without which life has no meaning ? ' he pondered , but he immediately *corrected* *himself* . ' But what am I asking about ? ' he said to himself .
' Do I not know that it is not the stars that are moving ? ' he *asked* *himself* , looking at a bright planet that had already shifted its position by the top branch of a birch tree . ' But I , watching the movement of the stars , can not picture to myself the rotation of the earth and I am right in saying that the stars move .
In an instant both boys were rolling and tumbling in the dirt , gripped together like cats ; and for the space of a minute they tugged and tore at each other 's hair and clothes , punched and scratched each other 's nose , and *covered* *themselves* with dust and glory .
The boy only struggled to *free* *himself* .
As he drew near , he slackened speed , took the middle of the street , leaned far over to starboard and rounded to ponderously and with laborious pomp and circumstance -- for he was personating the Big Missouri , and *considered* *himself* to be drawing nine feet of water .
He was boat and captain and engine-bells combined , so he had to *imagine* *himself* standing on his own hurricane-deck giving the orders and executing them :
TOM *presented* *himself* before Aunt Polly , who was sitting by an open window in a pleasant rearward apartment , which was bedroom , breakfast-room , dining-room , and library , combined .
She had thought that of course Tom had deserted long ago , and she wondered at seeing him *place* *himself* in her power again in this intrepid way .
He returned , now , and hung about the fence till nightfall , `` showing off , '' as before ; but the girl never *exhibited* *herself* again , though Tom *comforted* *himself* a little with the hope that she had been near some window , meantime , and been aware of his attentions .
He was so brimful of exultation that he could hardly *hold* *himself* when the old lady came back and stood above the wreck discharging lightnings of wrath from over her spectacles .
He *pictured* *himself* lying sick unto death and his aunt bending over him beseeching one little forgiving word , but he would turn his face to the wall , and die with that word unsaid .
And he *pictured* *himself* brought home from the river , dead , with his curls all wet , and his sore heart at rest .
How she would *throw* *herself* upon him , and how her tears would fall like rain , and her lips pray God to give her back her boy and she would never , never abuse him any more !
A log raft in the river invited him , and he *seated* *himself* on its outer edge and contemplated the dreary vastness of the stream , wishing , the while , that he could only be drowned , all at once and unconsciously , without undergoing the uncomfortable routine devised by nature .
He climbed the fence , threaded his stealthy way through the plants , till he stood under that window ; he looked up at it long , and with emotion ; then he laid him down on the ground under it , *disposing* *himself* upon his back , with his hands clasped upon his breast and holding his poor wilted flower .
The girl `` put him to rights '' after he had *dressed* *himself* ; she buttoned his neat roundabout up to his chin , turned his vast shirt collar down over his shoulders , brushed him off and crowned him with his speckled straw hat .
He once recited three thousand verses without stopping ; but the strain upon his mental faculties was too great , and he was little better than an idiot from that day forth -- a grievous misfortune for the school , for on great occasions , before company , the superintendent ( as Tom expressed it ) had always made this boy come out and `` *spread* *himself* . ''
And above it all the great man sat and beamed a majestic judicial smile upon all the house , and *warmed* *himself* in the sun of his own grandeur -- for he was `` showing off , '' too .
These *despised* *themselves* , as being the dupes of a wily fraud , a guileful snake in the grass .
The Sunday-school children *distributed* *themselves* about the house and occupied pews with their parents , so as to be under supervision .
After the hymn had been sung , the Rev. Mr. Sprague *turned* *himself* into a bulletin-board , and read off `` notices '' of meetings and societies and things till it seemed that the list would stretch out to the crack of doom -- a queer custom which is still kept up in America , even in cities , away here in this age of abundant newspapers . Often , the less there is to justify a traditional custom , the harder it is to get rid of it .
But he grew tired once more , after a while ; tried to *amuse* *himself* with a fly but found no relief ; followed an ant around , with his nose close to the floor , and quickly wearied of that ; yawned , sighed , forgot the beetle entirely , and sat down on it .
He took a rest and then *swelled* *himself* up and fetched a succession of admirable groans .
Sid yawned , stretched , then *brought* *himself* up on his elbow with a snort , and began to stare at Tom .
He gathered quite a following of lads interested in the exhibition ; and one that had cut his finger and had been a centre of fascination and homage up to this time , now *found* *himself* suddenly without an adherent , and shorn of his glory .
He hung his hat on a peg and *flung* *himself* into his seat with business-like alacrity .
He sat down upon the end of the pine bench and the girl *hitched* *herself* away from him with a toss of her head .
For a time the girl refused to notice ; but her human curiosity presently began to *manifest* *itself* by hardly perceptible signs .
Then the girl 's interest began to *fasten* *itself* upon the work and she forgot everything else .
It was a hard struggle with him to make new advances , now , but he *nerved* *himself* to it and entered .
So she sat down to cry again and *upbraid* *herself* ; and by this time the scholars began to gather again , and she had to hide her griefs and still her broken heart and take up the cross of a long , dreary , aching afternoon , with none among the strangers about her to exchange sorrows with .
For frivolity and jokes and spotted tights were an offense , when they *intruded* *themselves* upon a spirit that was exalted into the vague august realm of the romantic .
If you buried a marble with certain necessary incantations , and left it alone a fortnight , and then opened the place with the incantation he had just used , you would find that all the marbles you had ever lost had *gathered* *themselves* together there , meantime , no matter how widely they had been separated .
He thought he would *satisfy* *himself* on that point ; so he searched around till he found a small sandy spot with a little funnel-shaped depression in it .
He *laid* *himself* down and put his mouth close to this depression and called --
Now he went back to his treasure-house and carefully *placed* *himself* just as he had been standing when he tossed the marble away ; then he took another marble from his pocket and tossed it in the same way , saying : `` Brother , go find your brother ! ''
" I sha 'n't ! Why do n't you *fall* *yourself* ?
The boys *dressed* *themselves* , hid their accoutrements , and went off grieving that there were no outlaws any more , and wondering what modern civilization could claim to have done to compensate for their loss .
By and by , out of the stillness , little , scarcely perceptible noises began to *emphasize* *themselves* .
The ticking of the clock began to *bring* *itself* into notice .
They found the sharp new heap they were seeking , and *ensconced* *themselves* within the protection of three great elms that grew in a bunch within a few feet of the grave .
Did n't Gracie Miller fall in the kitchen fire and *burn* *herself* terrible the very next Saturday ? "
He undressed with excessive caution , and fell asleep *congratulating* *himself* that nobody knew of his escapade .
His aunt wept over him and asked him how he could go and break her old heart so ; and finally told him to go on , and *ruin* *himself* and bring her gray hairs with sorrow to the grave , for it was no use for her to try any more .
Then he *betook* *himself* to his seat , rested his elbows on his desk and his jaws in his hands , and stared at the wall with the stony stare of suffering that has reached the limit and can no further go .
And it was said that a belated citizen had come upon Potter *washing* *himself* in the `` branch '' about one or two o 'clock in the morning , and that Potter had at once sneaked off -- suspicious circumstances , especially the washing which was not a habit with Potter .
At this moment the crowd began to sway and struggle , and voices shouted , `` It 's him ! it 's him ! he 's *coming* *himself* ! ''
And when he had finished and still stood alive and whole , their wavering impulse to break their oath and save the poor betrayed prisoner 's life faded and vanished away , for plainly this miscreant had *sold* *himself* to Satan and it would be fatal to meddle with the property of such a power as that .
Injun Joe repeated his statement , just as calmly , a few minutes afterward on the inquest , under oath ; and the boys , seeing that the lightnings were still withheld , were confirmed in their belief that Joe had *sold* *himself* to the devil .
ONE of the reasons why Tom 's mind had drifted away from its secret troubles was , that it had found a new and weighty matter to *interest* *itself* about .
He began to *find* *himself* hanging around her father 's house , nights , and feeling very miserable .
He asked for it so often that he became a nuisance , and his aunt ended by telling him to *help* *himself* and quit bothering her .
He *gathered* *himself* up and sneaked off , crushed and crestfallen .
Then Tom tumbled his ham over the bluff and *let* *himself* down after it , tearing both skin and clothes to some extent in the effort .
The Terror of the Seas had brought a side of bacon , and had about *worn* *himself* out with getting it there .
They saw a fire smouldering upon a great raft a hundred yards above , and they went stealthily thither and *helped* *themselves* to a chunk .
When the last crisp slice of bacon was gone , and the last allowance of corn pone devoured , the boys *stretched* *themselves* out on the grass , filled with contentment .
They could have found a cooler place , but they would not *deny* *themselves* such a romantic feature as the roasting campfire .
Gradually the cool dim gray of the morning whitened , and as gradually sounds multiplied and life *manifested* *itself* .
They were too hungry to stop to fish , but they fared sumptuously upon cold ham , and then *threw* *themselves* down in the shade to talk .
However , he reached the shore finally , and drifted along till he found a low place and *drew* *himself* out .
He *laid* *himself* down under the thwarts and waited , panting .
He flew along unfrequented alleys , and shortly *found* *himself* at his aunt 's back fence .
Then with a mutual impulse the two bereaved women *flung* *themselves* into each other 's arms and had a good , consoling cry , and then parted .
When he had pulled a mile above the village , he started quartering across and *bent* *himself* stoutly to his work .
He sat down and took a long rest , *torturing* *himself* meanwhile to keep awake , and then started warily down the home-stretch .
It was broad daylight before he *found* *himself* fairly abreast the island bar .
Then Tom *hid* *himself* away in a shady nook to sleep till noon , and the other pirates got ready to fish and explore .
When they were well exhausted , they would run out and sprawl on the dry , hot sand , and lie there and *cover* *themselves* up with it , and by and by break for the water again and go through the original performance once more .
Tom *found* *himself* writing `` BECKY '' in the sand with his big toe ; he scratched it out , and was angry with himself for his weakness .
He erased it once more and then *took* *himself* out of temptation by driving the other boys together and joining them .
And he moved moodily away and began to *dress* *himself* .
Now they *stretched* *themselves* out on their elbows and began to puff , charily , and with slender confidence .
The boys *huddled* *themselves* together and sought the friendly companionship of the fire , though the dull dead heat of the breathless atmosphere was stifling .
A deep peal of thunder went rolling and tumbling down the heavens and *lost* *itself* in sullen rumblings in the distance .
They were eloquent in their distress ; but they presently discovered that the fire had eaten so far up under the great log it had been built against ( where it curved upward and *separated* *itself* from the ground ) , that a handbreadth or so of it had escaped wetting ; so they patiently wrought until , with shreds and bark gathered from the under sides of sheltered logs , they coaxed the fire to burn again .
In the afternoon Becky Thatcher found *herself* *moping* about the deserted schoolhouse yard , and feeling very melancholy .
As the service proceeded , the clergyman drew such pictures of the graces , the winning ways , and the rare promise of the lost lads that every soul there , thinking he recognized these pictures , felt a pang in remembering that he had persistently *blinded* *himself* to them always before , and had as persistently seen only faults and flaws in the poor boys .
The congregation became more and more moved , as the pathetic tale went on , till at last the whole company broke down and joined the weeping mourners in a chorus of anguished sobs , the *preacher* *himself* giving way to his feelings , and crying in the pulpit .
Aunt Polly , Mary , and the Harpers *threw* *themselves* upon their restored ones , smothered them with kisses and poured out thanksgivings , while poor Huck stood abashed and uncomfortable , not knowing exactly what to do or where to hide from so many unwelcoming eyes .
I 'm thankful to the good God and Father of us all I 've got you back , that 's long-suffering and merciful to them that believe on Him and keep His word , though goodness knows I 'm unworthy of it , but if only the worthy ones got His blessings and had His hand to help them over the rough places , there 's few enough would smile here or ever enter into His rest when the long night comes . Go ' long Sid , Mary , Tom -- *take* *yourselves* off -- you 've hendered me long enough . "
Becky 's lips trembled and the tears came to her eyes ; she hid these signs with a forced gayety and went on chattering , but the life had gone out of the picnic , now , and out of everything else ; she got away as soon as she could and *hid* *herself* and had what her sex call `` a good cry . ''
He began to *hate* *himself* for throwing away the chance Becky had offered for a reconciliation .
He *called* *himself* a fool , and all the hard names he could think of .
Becky , glancing in at a window behind him at the moment , saw the act , and moved on , without *discovering* *herself* .
Once more she ventured , and this time she *fortified* *herself* with the thought : `` It 's a good lie -- it 's a good lie -- I wo n't let it grieve me . ''
The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face : " I 'll thank you to *keep* *yourself* _ to _ yourself , Mr. Thomas Sawyer .
Every day he took a mysterious book out of his desk and *absorbed* *himself* in it at times when no classes were reciting .
She glanced around ; *found* *herself* alone , and the next instant she had the book in her hands .
She did not expect that Tom could get out of his trouble by denying that he spilt the ink on the *book* *himself* ; and she was right .
When the worst came to the worst , she had an impulse to get up and tell on Alfred Temple , but she made an effort and *forced* *herself* to keep still -- because , said she to herself , " he 'll tell about me tearing the picture sure .
By and by , Mr. Dobbins *straightened* *himself* up , yawned , then unlocked his desk , and reached for his book , but seemed undecided whether to take it out or leave it .
Mr. Dobbins fingered his book absently for a while , then took it out and *settled* *himself* in his chair to read !
The master 's wife would go on a visit to the country in a few days , and there would be nothing to interfere with the plan ; the master always *prepared* *himself* for great occasions by getting pretty well fuddled , and the signpainter 's boy said that when the dominie had reached the proper condition on Examination Evening he would `` manage the thing '' while he napped in his chair ; then he would have him awakened at the right time and hurried away to school .
A very little boy stood up and sheepishly recited , `` You 'd scarce expect one of my age to speak in public on the stage , '' etc . -- *accompanying* *himself* with the painfully exact and spasmodic gestures which a machine might have used -- supposing the machine to be a trifle out of order .
In fancy , the voluptuous votary of fashion *sees* *herself* amid the festive throng , ' the observed of all observers . '
He knew what the matter was , and *set* *himself* to right it .
Tom soon found *himself* *tormented* with a desire to drink and swear ; the desire grew to be so intense that nothing but the hope of a chance to *display* *himself* in his red sash kept him from withdrawing from the order .
By and by the tempest *spent* *itself* and died without accomplishing its object .
Moreover , he wanted to *assure* *himself* that Huck had remained discreet .
As the twilight drew on , they *found* *themselves* hanging about the neighborhood of the little isolated jail , perhaps with an undefined hope that something would happen that might clear away their difficulties .
The next day and the day after , he hung about the courtroom , drawn by an almost irresistible impulse to go in , but *forcing* *himself* to stay out .
The perplexity and dissatisfaction of the house *expressed* *itself* in murmurs and provoked a reproof from the bench .
Many men were moved , and many women 's compassion *testified* *itself* in tears .
Every eye *fastened* *itself* with wondering interest upon Tom as he rose and took his place upon the stand .
Tom began -- hesitatingly at first , but as he warmed to his subject his words flowed more and more easily ; in a little while every sound ceased but his own voice ; every eye *fixed* *itself* upon him ; with parted lips and bated breath the audience hung upon his words , taking no note of time , rapt in the ghastly fascinations of the tale .
They arrived hot and panting , and *threw* *themselves* down in the shade of a neighboring elm to rest and have a smoke .
The boys *stretched* *themselves* upon the floor with their eyes to knotholes in the planking , and lay waiting , in a misery of fear . " They 've stopped
He *gathered* *himself* up cursing , and his comrade said : " Now what 's the use of all that ?
They were too much absorbed in *hating* *themselves* -- hating the ill luck that made them take the spade and the pick there .
But the incidents of his adventure grew sensibly sharper and clearer under the attrition of thinking them over , and so he presently *found* *himself* leaning to the impression that the thing might not have been a dream , after all .
The tavern-keeper 's young son said it was kept locked all the time , and he never saw anybody go into it or come out of it except at night ; he did not know any particular reason for this state of things ; had had some little curiosity , but it was rather feeble ; had made the most of the mystery by *entertaining* *himself* with the idea that that room was `` ha 'nted '' ; had noticed that there was a light in there the night before .
In his uneasiness Huck found *himself* *drawing* closer and closer to the alley ; fearing all sorts of dreadful things , and momentarily expecting some catastrophe to happen that would take away his breath .
There was not much to take away , for he seemed only able to inhale it by thimblefuls , and his heart would soon *wear* *itself* out , the way it was beating .
And mind and *behave* *yourself* and do n't be any trouble . "
The sure fun of the evening outweighed the uncertain treasure ; and , boy-like , he determined to yield to the stronger inclination and not *allow* *himself* to think of the box of money another time that day .
Ten o 'clock came , and the noise of vehicles ceased , scattered lights began to wink out , all straggling foot-passengers disappeared , the village *betook* *itself* to its slumbers and left the small watcher alone with the silence and the ghosts .
Now he turned in his tracks , between the walls of sumach bushes -- *turned* *himself* as carefully as if he were a ship -- and then stepped quickly but cautiously along .
Huck was given a seat and the old man and his brace of tall sons speedily *dressed* *themselves* .
" Now , my boy , I hope you 're good and hungry , because breakfast will be ready as soon as the sun 's up , and we 'll have a piping hot one , too -- *make* *yourself* easy about that !
Huck was in a close place -- the inquiring eye was upon him -- he would have given anything for material for a plausible answer -- nothing *suggested* *itself* -- the inquiring eye was boring deeper and deeper -- a senseless reply offered -- there was no time to weigh it , so at a venture he uttered it -- feebly :
Under the roof vast knots of bats had *packed* *themselves* together , thousands in a bunch ; the lights disturbed the creatures and they came flocking down by hundreds , squeaking and darting furiously at the candles .
He fell to blaming and *abusing* *himself* for getting her into this miserable situation ; this had a better effect .
He was vastly gratified the next moment , to see the `` Spaniard '' take to his heels and *get* *himself* out of sight .
Tin pans and horns were added to the din , the population *massed* *itself* and moved toward the river , met the children coming in an open carriage drawn by shouting citizens , thronged around it , joined its homeward march , and swept magnificently up the main street roaring huzzah after huzzah !
When the cave door was unlocked , a sorrowful sight *presented* *itself* in the dim twilight of the place .
The great foundation-beam of the door had been chipped and hacked through , with tedious labor ; useless labor , too , it was , for the native rock formed a sill outside it , and upon that stubborn material the knife had wrought no effect ; the only damage done was to the *knife* *itself* .
This question was not entirely answered in Huck 's slow mind before he found *himself* *pushed* , along with Tom , into Mrs. Douglas ' drawing-room .
She took them to a bedchamber and said : " Now wash and *dress* *yourselves* .
At the proper time Mr. Jones made his little speech , in which he thanked the widow for the honor she was *doing* *himself* and his sons , but said that there was another person whose modesty -- And so forth and so on .
It contained a bookcase : I soon *possessed* *myself* of a volume , taking care that it should be one stored with pictures .
The words in these introductory pages *connected* *themselves* with the succeeding vignettes , and gave significance to the rock standing up alone in a sea of billow and spray ; to the broken boat stranded on a desolate coast ; to the cold and ghastly moon glancing through bars of cloud at a wreck just sinking .
`` I want you to come here ; '' and *seating* *himself* in an arm-chair , he intimated by a gesture that I was to approach and stand before him .
He *gorged* *himself* habitually at table , which made him bilious , and gave him a dim and bleared eye and flabby cheeks .
In guarantee whereof , I *attached* *myself* to my seat by my hands .
Miss Abbot joined in -- " And you ought not to *think* *yourself* on an equality with the Misses Reed and Master Reed , because Missis kindly allows you to be brought up with them .
They will have a great deal of money , and you will have none : it is your place to be humble , and to try to *make* *yourself* agreeable to them . "
`` Unjust ! -- unjust ! '' said my reason , forced by the agonising stimulus into precocious though transitory power : and Resolve , equally wrought up , instigated some strange expedient to achieve escape from insupportable oppression -- as running away , or , if that could not be effected , never eating or drinking more , and *letting* *myself* die .
All said I was wicked , and perhaps I might be so ; what thought had I been but just conceiving of *starving* *myself* to death ?
It must have been most irksome to find *herself* *bound* by a hard-wrung pledge to stand in the stead of a parent to a strange child she could not love , and to see an uncongenial alien permanently intruded on her own family group .
Was it , I *asked* *myself* , a ray from the moon penetrating some aperture in the blind ?
`` I was knocked down , '' was the blunt explanation , jerked out of me by another pang of mortified pride ; `` but that did not make me ill , '' I added ; while Mr. Lloyd *helped* *himself* to a pinch of snuff .
But Bessie , as soon as she had dressed her young ladies , used to *take* *herself* off to the lively regions of the kitchen and housekeeper 's room , generally bearing the candle along with her .
I then sat with my doll on my knee till the fire got low , glancing round occasionally to make sure that nothing worse than *myself* *haunted* the shadowy room ; and when the embers sank to a dull red , I undressed hastily , tugging at knots and strings as I best might , and sought shelter from cold and darkness in my crib .
Not being in a condition to remove his doubt , I only cast my eyes down on the two large feet planted on the rug , and sighed , *wishing* *myself* far enough away .
I was about to propound a question , touching the manner in which that operation of changing my heart was to be performed , when Mrs. Reed interposed , telling me to sit down ; she then proceeded to carry on the *conversation* *herself* .
Now , uttered before a stranger , the accusation cut me to the heart ; I dimly perceived that she was already obliterating hope from the new phase of existence which she destined me to enter ; I felt , though I could not have expressed the feeling , that she was sowing aversion and unkindness along my future path ; I *saw* *myself* transformed under Mr. Brocklehurst 's eye into an artful , noxious child , and what could I do to remedy the injury ?
`` Madam , you may : she shall be placed in that nursery of chosen plants , and I trust she will *show* *herself* grateful for the inestimable privilege of her election . ''
Not without cause was this sentiment : Mrs. Reed looked frightened ; her work had slipped from her knee ; she was lifting up her hands , *rocking* *herself* to and fro , and even twisting her face as if she would cry .
Few children can eat when excited with the thoughts of a journey ; nor could I. Bessie , having pressed me in vain to take a few spoonfuls of the boiled milk and bread she had prepared for me , wrapped up some biscuits in a paper and put them into my bag ; then she helped me on with my pelisse and bonnet , and *wrapping* *herself* in a shawl , she and I left the nursery .
`` Silence ! '' ejaculated a voice ; not that of Miss Miller , but one of the upper teachers , a little and dark personage , smartly dressed , but of somewhat morose aspect , who *installed* *herself* at the top of one table , while a more buxom lady presided at the other .
I leant against a pillar of the verandah , drew my grey mantle close about me , and , trying to forget the cold which nipped me without , and the unsatisfied hunger which gnawed me within , *delivered* *myself* up to the employment of watching and thinking .
At that hour most of the others were sewing likewise ; but one class still stood round Miss Scatcherd 's chair reading , and as all was quiet , the subject of their lessons could be heard , together with the manner in which each girl *acquitted* *herself* , and the animadversions or commendations of Miss Scatcherd on the performance .
My first quarter at Lowood seemed an age ; and not the golden age either ; it comprised an irksome struggle with difficulties in *habituating* *myself* to new rules and unwonted tasks .
A long stride measured the schoolroom , and presently beside Miss Temple , who *herself* *had* risen , stood the same black column which had frowned on me so ominously from the hearthrug of Gateshead .
A brief address on those occasions would not be mistimed , wherein a judicious instructor would take the opportunity of referring to the sufferings of the primitive Christians ; to the torments of martyrs ; to the exhortations of our blessed *Lord* *Himself* , calling upon His disciples to take up their cross and follow Him ; to His warnings that man shall not live by bread alone , but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God ; to His divine consolations , `` If ye suffer hunger or thirst for My sake , happy are ye . ''
`` Madam , '' he pursued , `` I have a Master to serve whose kingdom is not of this world : my mission is to mortify in these girls the lusts of the flesh ; to teach them to *clothe* *themselves* with shame-facedness and sobriety , not with braided hair and costly apparel ; and each of the young persons before us has a string of hair twisted in plaits which *vanity* *itself* might have woven ; these , I repeat , must be cut off ; think of the time wasted , of -- '' Mr. Brocklehurst was here interrupted : three other visitors , ladies , now entered the room .
Now came a pause of ten minutes , during which I , by this time in perfect possession of my wits , observed all the female Brocklehursts produce their pocket-handkerchiefs and apply them to their optics , while the elderly lady *swayed* *herself* to and fro , and the two younger ones whispered , `` How shocking ! ''
Now I wept : Helen Burns was not here ; nothing sustained me ; left to myself I *abandoned* *myself* , and my tears watered the boards .
" Mr. Brocklehurst is not a god : nor is he even a great and admired man : he is little liked here ; he never took steps to *make* *himself* liked .
Miss Temple told Helen Burns to be seated in a low arm-chair on one side of the hearth , and *herself* *taking* another , she called me to her side .
" We shall think you what you *prove* *yourself* to be , my child .
You have been charged with falsehood ; *defend* *yourself* to me as well as you can .
She was pensive a few minutes , then *rousing* *herself* , she said cheerfully --
That *beck* *itself* was then a torrent , turbid and curbless : it tore asunder the wood , and sent a raving sound through the air , often thickened with wild rain or whirling sleet ; and for the forest on its banks , _ that _ showed only ranks of skeletons .
One evening , in the beginning of June , I had stayed out very late with Mary Ann in the wood ; we had , as usual , *separated* *ourselves* from the others , and had wandered far ; so far that we lost our way , and had to ask it at a lonely cottage , where a man and woman lived , who looked after a herd of half-wild swine that fed on the mast in the wood .
She *stirred* *herself* , put back the curtain , and I saw her face , pale , wasted , but quite composed : she looked so little changed that my fear was instantly dissipated .
`` Jane , your little feet are bare ; lie down and *cover* *yourself* with my quilt . ''
I had the means of an excellent education placed within my reach ; a fondness for some of my studies , and a desire to excel in all , together with a great delight in pleasing my teachers , especially such as I loved , urged me on : I *availed* *myself* fully of the advantages offered me .
I *imagined* *myself* only to be regretting my loss , and thinking how to repair it ; but when my reflections were concluded , and I looked up and found that the afternoon was gone , and evening far advanced , another discovery dawned on me , namely , that in the interval I had undergone a transforming process ; that my mind had put off all it had borrowed of Miss Temple -- or rather that she had taken with her the serene atmosphere I had been breathing in her vicinity -- and that now I was left in my natural element , and beginning to feel the stirring of old emotions .
The succeeding week seemed long : it came to an end at last , however , like all sublunary things , and once more , towards the close of a pleasant autumn day , I *found* *myself* afoot on the road to Lowton .
This note went the round of the committee , and at last , after what appeared to me most tedious delay , formal leave was given me to better my condition if I could ; and an assurance added , that as I had always *conducted* *myself* well , both as teacher and pupil , at Lowood , a testimonial of character and capacity , signed by the inspectors of that institution , should forthwith be furnished me .
I now *busied* *myself* in preparations : the fortnight passed rapidly .
It is a very strange sensation to inexperienced youth to *feel* *itself* quite alone in the world , cut adrift from every connection , uncertain whether the port to which it is bound can be reached , and prevented by many impediments from returning to that it has quitted .
I *bethought* *myself* to ring the bell .
`` Will you walk this way , ma 'am ? '' said the girl ; and I followed her across a square hall with high doors all round : she ushered me into a room whose double illumination of fire and candle at first dazzled me , contrasting as it did with the darkness to which my eyes had been for two hours inured ; when I could see , however , a cosy and agreeable picture *presented* *itself* to my view .
She conducted me to her own chair , and then began to remove my shawl and untie my bonnet-strings ; I begged she would not *give* *herself* so much trouble .
She returned ; with her own hands cleared her knitting apparatus and a book or two from the table , to make room for the tray which Leah now brought , and then *herself* *handed* me the refreshments .
I rose ; I *dressed* *myself* with care : obliged to be plain -- for I had no article of attire that was not made with extreme simplicity -- I was still by nature solicitous to be neat .
The present Mr. Rochester 's mother was a Fairfax , and second cousin to my husband : but I never presume on the connection -- in fact , it is nothing to me ; I *consider* *myself* quite in the light of an ordinary housekeeper : my employer is always civil , and I expect nothing more . "
Fortunately I had had the advantage of being taught French by a French lady ; and as I had always made a point of conversing with Madame Pierrot as often as I could , and had besides , during the last seven years , learnt a portion of French by heart daily -- *applying* *myself* to take pains with my accent , and imitating as closely as possible the pronunciation of my teacher , I had acquired a certain degree of readiness and correctness in the language , and was not likely to be much at a loss with Mademoiselle Adela .
Descending from her chair , she came and *placed* *herself* on my knee ; then , folding her little hands demurely before her , shaking back her curls and lifting her eyes to the ceiling , she commenced singing a song from some opera .
I then proposed to *occupy* *myself* till dinner-time in drawing some little sketches for her use .
Women are supposed to be very calm generally : but women feel just as men feel ; they need exercise for their faculties , and a field for their efforts , as much as their brothers do ; they suffer from too rigid a restraint , too absolute a stagnation , precisely as men would suffer ; and it is narrow-minded in their more privileged fellow-creatures to say that they ought to *confine* *themselves* to making puddings and knitting stockings , to playing on the piano and embroidering bags .
I obeyed him , and walked down to the traveller , by this time *struggling* *himself* free of his steed .
We obeyed , as in duty bound ; Adele wanted to take a seat on my knee , but she was ordered to *amuse* *herself* with Pilot .
`` Do n't *trouble* *yourself* to give her a character , '' returned Mr. Rochester : " eulogiums will not bias me ; I shall judge for myself .
`` Yes , there is your ' boite ' at last : take it into a corner , you genuine daughter of Paris , and *amuse* *yourself* with disembowelling it , '' said the deep and rather sarcastic voice of Mr. Rochester , proceeding from the depths of an immense easy-chair at the fireside .
Accordingly I sat and said nothing : `` If he expects me to talk for the mere sake of talking and showing off , he will find he has *addressed* *himself* to the wrong person , '' I thought .
The fact is , once for all , I do n't wish to treat you like an inferior : that is `` ( *correcting* *himself* ) , '' I claim only such superiority as must result from twenty years ' difference in age and a century 's advance in experience .
I smiled : I thought to *myself* *Mr.* Rochester _ is _ peculiar -- he seems to forget that he pays me 30 pounds per annum for receiving his orders .
`` I was thinking , sir , that very few masters would *trouble* *themselves* to inquire whether or not their paid subordinates were piqued and hurt by their orders . ''
Do you wonder that I avow this to you ? Know , that in the course of your future life you will often find *yourself* *elected* the involuntary confidant of your acquaintances ' secrets : people will instinctively find out , as I have done , that it is not your forte to tell of yourself , but to listen while others talk of themselves ; they will feel , too , that you listen with no malevolent scorn of their indiscretion , but with a kind of innate sympathy ; not the less comforting and encouraging because it is very unobtrusive in its manifestations . "
Now , when any vicious simpleton excites my disgust by his paltry ribaldry , I can not *flatter* *myself* that I am better than he : I am forced to confess that he and I are on a level .
" Not at all -- it bears the most gracious message in the world : for the rest , you are not my conscience-keeper , so do n't *make* *yourself* uneasy .
You seem to doubt me ; I do n't *doubt* *myself* : I know what my aim is , what my motives are ; and at this moment I pass a law , unalterable as that of the Medes and Persians , that both are right . "
Do n't *trouble* *yourself* to answer -- I see you laugh rarely ; but you can laugh very merrily : believe me , you are not naturally austere , any more than I am naturally vicious .
He *thought* *himself* her idol , ugly as he was : he believed , as he said , that she preferred his `` _ taille d 'athlete _ '' to the elegance of the Apollo Belvidere .
I was just beginning to stifle with the fumes of conservatory flowers and sprinkled essences , when I *bethought* *myself* to open the window and step out on to the balcony .
I *asked* *myself* . " What alienates him from the house ?
Though it was now dark , I knew he was awake ; because I heard him fulminating strange anathemas at *finding* *himself* lying in a pool of water .
Meantime , I am glad that you are the only person , *besides* *myself* , acquainted with the precise details of to-night 's incident .
I *bethought* *myself* of an expedient . `` I think I hear Mrs. Fairfax move , sir , '' said I.
I *compared* *myself* with her , and found we were different .
That a greater fool than Jane Eyre had never breathed the breath of life ; that a more fantastic idiot had never *surfeited* *herself* on sweet lies , and swallowed poison as if it were nectar .
Ere long , I had reason to *congratulate* *myself* on the course of wholesome discipline to which I had thus forced my feelings to submit .
I was actually *permitting* *myself* to experience a sickening sense of disappointment ; but rallying my wits , and recollecting my principles , I at once called my sensations to order ; and it was wonderful how I got over the temporary blunder -- how I cleared up the mistake of supposing Mr. Rochester 's movements a matter in which I had any cause to take a vital interest .
Not that I *humbled* *myself* by a slavish notion of inferiority : on the contrary , I just said -- " You have nothing to do with the master of Thornfield , further than to receive the salary he gives you for teaching his protegee , and to be grateful for such respectful and kind treatment as , if you do your duty , you have a right to expect at his hands .
Ere I *permitted* *myself* to request an explanation , I tied the string of Adele 's pinafore , which happened to be loose : having helped her also to another bun and refilled her mug with milk , I said , nonchalantly --
Some of them *threw* *themselves* in half-reclining positions on the sofas and ottomans : some bent over the tables and examined the flowers and books : the rest gathered in a group round the fire : all talked in a low but clear tone which seemed habitual to them .
Did I *forbid* *myself* to think of him in any other light than as a paymaster ?
Miss Ingram , who had now *seated* *herself* with proud grace at the piano , spreading out her snowy robes in queenly amplitude , commenced a brilliant prelude ; talking meantime .
Miss Ingram *placed* *herself* at her leader 's right hand ; the other diviners filled the chairs on each side of him and her .
What charade Colonel Dent and his party played , what word they chose , how they *acquitted* *themselves* , I no longer remember ; but I still see the consultation which followed each scene : I see Mr. Rochester turn to Miss Ingram , and Miss Ingram to him ; I see her incline her head towards him , till the jetty curls almost touch his shoulder and wave against his cheek ; I hear their mutual whisperings ; I recall their interchanged glances ; and something even of the feeling roused by the spectacle returns in memory at this moment .
But as matters really stood , to watch Miss Ingram 's efforts at fascinating Mr. Rochester , to witness their repeated failure -- *herself* *unconscious* that they did fail ; vainly fancying that each shaft launched hit the mark , and infatuatedly *pluming* *herself* on success , when her pride and self-complacency repelled further and further what she wished to allure -- to witness _ this _ , was to be at once under ceaseless excitation and ruthless restraint .
I *asked* *myself* . " Surely she can not truly like him , or not like him with true affection !
Blanche Ingram , after having repelled , by supercilious taciturnity , some efforts of Mrs. Dent and Mrs. Eshton to draw her into conversation , had first murmured over some sentimental tunes and airs on the piano , and then , having fetched a novel from the library , had *flung* *herself* in haughty listlessness on a sofa , and prepared to beguile , by the spell of fiction , the tedious hours of absence .
`` It appears I come at an inopportune time , madam , '' said he , `` when my friend , Mr. Rochester , is from home ; but I arrive from a very long journey , and I think I may presume so far on old and intimate acquaintance as to *instal* *myself* here till he returns . ''
`` Tell her she shall be put in the stocks if she does not *take* *herself* off , '' replied the magistrate .
`` I do n't care about it , mother ; you may *please* *yourself* : but I ought to warn you , I have no faith . ''
" Ah ! you *think* *yourself* sharp .
So far I have *governed* *myself* thoroughly .
I knew gipsies and fortune-tellers did not *express* *themselves* as this seeming old woman had *expressed* *herself* ; besides I had noted her feigned voice , her anxiety to conceal her features .
`` No ; he said he had known you long , and that he could take the liberty of *installing* *himself* here till you returned . '' " The devil he did !
*Calming* *himself* by an effort , he added --
Not , however , to go to bed : on the contrary , I began and *dressed* *myself* carefully .
`` I shall have to leave you in this room with this gentleman , for an hour , or perhaps two hours : you will sponge the blood as I do when it returns : if he feels faint , you will put the glass of water on that stand to his lips , and your salts to his nose . You will not speak to him on any pretext -- and -- Richard , it will be at the peril of your life if you speak to her : open your lips -- *agitate* *yourself* -- and I 'll not answer for the consequences . ''
" Well then , Jane , call to aid your fancy : -- suppose you were no longer a girl well reared and disciplined , but a wild boy indulged from childhood upwards ; *imagine* *yourself* in a remote foreign land ; conceive that you there commit a capital error , no matter of what nature or from what motives , but one whose consequences must follow you through life and taint all your existence .
I *have* *myself* -- I tell it you without parable -- been a worldly , dissipated , restless man ; and I believe I have found the instrument for my cure in -- "
`` Why , you see , Miss Eyre , it is not a common mishap : his life has been very wild : these last three years he *gave* *himself* up to strange ways , and his death was shocking . ''
How he died , God knows ! -- they say he *killed* *himself* . "
" John Reed is dead , too , sir : he *ruined* *himself* and half-ruined his family , and is supposed to have committed suicide .
`` How long is he going to stand with his back against that door ? '' I *asked* *myself* ; `` I want to commence my packing . ''
Will you *rest* *yourself* here an hour , Miss , and then I will go up with you ? "
I had taken a journey of a hundred miles to see my aunt , and I must stay with her till she was better -- or dead : as to her daughters ' pride or folly , I must put it on one side , *make* *myself* independent of it .
Provided with a case of pencils , and some sheets of paper , I used to take a seat apart from them , near the window , and busy myself in sketching fancy vignettes , representing any scene that happened momentarily to *shape* *itself* in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of imagination : a glimpse of sea between two rocks ; the rising moon , and a ship crossing its disk ; a group of reeds and water-flags , and a naiad 's head , crowned with lotus- flowers , rising out of them ; an elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow 's nest , under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom .
She had an alarm to call her up early . I know not how she *occupied* *herself* before breakfast , but after that meal she divided her time into regular portions , and each hour had its allotted task .
You need not think that because we chanced to be born of the same parents , I shall suffer you to fasten me down by even the feeblest claim : I can tell you this -- if the whole human race , *ourselves* *excepted* , were swept away , and we two stood alone on the earth , I would leave you in the old world , and *betake* *myself* to the new . "
`` You might have *spared* *yourself* the trouble of delivering that tirade , '' answered Georgiana .
I *bethought* *myself* to go upstairs and see how the dying woman sped , who lay there almost unheeded : the very servants paid her but a remittent attention : the hired nurse , being little looked after , would slip out of the room whenever she could .
`` I am very ill , I know , '' she said ere long . " I was trying to *turn* *myself* a few minutes since , and find I can not move a limb .
`` After all , it is of no great importance , perhaps , '' she murmured to herself : `` and then I may get better ; and to *humble* *myself* so to her is painful . ''
I shall *devote* *myself* for a time to the examination of the Roman Catholic dogmas , and to a careful study of the workings of their system : if I find it to be , as I half suspect it is , the one best calculated to ensure the doing of all things decently and in order , I shall embrace the tenets of Rome and probably take the veil . "
Mrs. Fairfax surmised that he was gone to make arrangements for his wedding , as he had talked of purchasing a new carriage : she said the idea of his marrying Miss Ingram still seemed strange to her ; but from what everybody said , and from what she had *herself* *seen* , she could no longer doubt that the event would shortly take place .
I felt glad as the road shortened before me : so glad that I stopped once to *ask* *myself* what that joy meant : and to remind reason that it was not to my home I was going , or to a permanent resting-place , or to a place where fond friends looked out for me and waited my arrival .
And then I strangled a new-born agony -- a deformed thing which I could not *persuade* *myself* to own and rear -- and ran on .
`` Yes , sir , I will advertise immediately : and meantime , I suppose -- '' I was going to say , `` I suppose I may stay here , till I find another shelter to *betake* *myself* to : '' but I stopped , feeling it would not do to risk a long sentence , for my voice was not quite under command .
`` In about a month I hope to be a bridegroom , '' continued Mr. Rochester ; `` and in the interim , I shall *myself* *look* out for employment and an asylum for you . ''
I never go over to Ireland , not *having* *myself* much of a fancy for the country .
Still I did not answer , and still I *writhed* *myself* from his grasp : for I was still incredulous .
None : as I have taken pains to prove : I caused a rumour to reach her that my fortune was not a third of what was supposed , and after that I *presented* *myself* to see the result ; it was coldness both from her and her mother . I would not -- I could not -- marry Miss Ingram .
`` I will *myself* *put* the diamond chain round your neck , and the circlet on your forehead , -- which it will become : for nature , at least , has stamped her patent of nobility on this brow , Jane ; and I will clasp the bracelets on these fine wrists , and load these fairy-like fingers with rings . ''
`` I will make the world acknowledge you a beauty , too , '' he went on , while I really became uneasy at the strain he had adopted , because I felt he was either *deluding* *himself* or trying to delude me .
I would as soon see you , Mr. Rochester , tricked out in stage-trappings , as *myself* *clad* in a court-lady 's robe ; and I do n't call you handsome , sir , though I love you most dearly : far too dearly to flatter you .
After a brief stay there , I shall bear my treasure to regions nearer the sun : to French vineyards and Italian plains ; and she shall see whatever is famous in old story and in modern record : she shall taste , too , of the life of cities ; and she shall learn to *value* *herself* by just comparison with others . "
I loved him very much -- more than I could *trust* *myself* to say -- more than words had power to express .
Seeing me , she *roused* *herself* : she made a sort of effort to smile , and framed a few words of congratulation ; but the smile expired , and the sentence was abandoned unfinished .
I knew such an idea would shock , perhaps offend you ; and you were so discreet , and so thoroughly modest and sensible , I hoped you might be trusted to *protect* *yourself* .
Try and keep Mr. Rochester at a distance : *distrust* *yourself* as well as him .
`` She will want to *warm* *herself* : what will she do for a fire ? ''
By dint of entreaties expressed in energetic whispers , I reduced the half-dozen to two : these however , he vowed he would *select* *himself* .
" I 'll be *preparing* *myself* to go out as a missionary to preach liberty to them that are enslaved -- your harem inmates amongst the rest .
I 'll get admitted there , and I 'll stir up mutiny ; and you , three-tailed bashaw as you are , sir , shall in a trice find *yourself* *fettered* amongst our hands : nor will I , for one , consent to cut your bonds till you have signed a charter , the most liberal that despot ever yet conferred . "
Being pushed unceremoniously to one side -- which was precisely what I wished -- he usurped my place , and proceeded to *accompany* *himself* : for he could play as well as sing .
Here I heard *myself* *apostrophised* as a `` hard little thing ; '' and it was added , `` any other woman would have been melted to marrow at hearing such stanzas crooned in her praise . ''
Mr. Rochester had *himself* *written* the direction , `` Mrs. Rochester , -- - Hotel , London , '' on each : I could not *persuade* *myself* to affix them , or to have them affixed .
As I looked up at them , the moon appeared momentarily in that part of the sky which filled their fissure ; her disk was blood-red and half overcast ; she seemed to throw on me one bewildered , dreary glance , and *buried* *herself* again instantly in the deep drift of cloud .
Here and there I strayed through the orchard , gathered up the apples with which the grass round the tree roots was thickly strewn ; then I *employed* *myself* in dividing the ripe from the unripe ; I carried them into the house and put them away in the store-room .
I lingered ; the moon *shut* *herself* wholly within her chamber , and drew close her curtain of dense cloud : the night grew dark ; rain came driving fast on the gale .
He *checked* *himself* in his exultation to demand , " But is there anything the matter , Janet , that you come to meet me at such an hour ?
I thought how I would carry down to you the square of unembroidered blond I had *myself* *prepared* as a covering for my low-born head , and ask if that was not good enough for a woman who could bring her husband neither fortune , beauty , nor connections .
She seemed the emblem of my past life ; and here I was now to *array* *myself* to meet , the dread , but adored , type of my unknown future day .
Mr. Rochester heard , but heeded not : he stood stubborn and rigid , making no movement but to *possess* *himself* of my hand .
The house cleared , I *shut* *myself* in , fastened the bolt that none might intrude , and proceeded -- not to weep , not to mourn , I was yet too calm for that , but -- mechanically to take off the wedding dress , and replace it by the stuff gown I had worn yesterday , as I thought , for the last time .
`` No ; you shall *tear* *yourself* away , none shall help you : you shall *yourself* *pluck* out your right eye ; *yourself* *cut* off your right hand : your heart shall be the victim , and you the priest to transfix it . ''
I could not soon *recover* *myself* .
So you shun me ? -- you *shut* *yourself* up and grieve alone !
What do you say to that ? I see you can say nothing in the first place , you are faint still , and have enough to do to draw your breath ; in the second place , you can not yet *accustom* *yourself* to accuse and revile me , and besides , the flood-gates of tears are opened , and they would rush out if you spoke much ; and you have no desire to expostulate , to upbraid , to make a scene : you are thinking how _ to act _ -- _ talking _ you consider is of no use . I know you -- I am on my guard . "
You intend to *make* *yourself* a complete stranger to me : to live under this roof only as Adele 's governess ; if ever I say a friendly word to you , if ever a friendly feeling inclines you again to me , you will say , -- ' That man had nearly made me his mistress : I must be ice and rock to him ; ' and ice and rock you will accordingly become . "
when I found that I could not pass a single evening , nor even a single hour of the day with her in comfort ; that kindly conversation could not be sustained between us , because whatever topic I started , immediately received from her a turn at once coarse and trite , perverse and imbecile -- when I perceived that I should never have a quiet or settled household , because no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her violent and unreasonable temper , or the vexations of her absurd , contradictory , exacting orders -- even then I *restrained* *myself* : I eschewed upbraiding , I curtailed remonstrance ; I tried to devour my repentance and disgust in secret ; I repressed the deep antipathy I felt .
And I could not *rid* *myself* of it by any legal proceedings : for the doctors now discovered that _ my wife _ was mad -- her excesses had prematurely developed the germs of insanity .
In the eyes of the world , I was doubtless covered with grimy dishonour ; but I resolved to be clean in my own sight -- and to the last I repudiated the contamination of her crimes , and *wrenched* *myself* from connection with her mental defects .
I have a right to *deliver* *myself* from it if I can .
" I said this whilst I knelt down at , and unlocked a trunk which contained a brace of loaded pistols : I mean to *shoot* *myself* .
You may take the maniac with you to England ; confine her with due attendance and precautions at Thornfield : then *travel* *yourself* to what clime you will , and form what new tie you like .
The lunatic is both cunning and malignant ; she has never failed to take advantage of her guardian 's temporary lapses ; once to secrete the knife with which she stabbed her brother , and twice to *possess* *herself* of the key of her cell , and issue therefrom in the night-time .
I *transformed* *myself* into a will-o ' -the-wisp .
I felt the truth of these words ; and I drew from them the certain inference , that if I were so far to *forget* *myself* and all the teaching that had ever been instilled into me , as -- under any pretext -- with any justification -- through any temptation -- to become the successor of these poor girls , he would one day regard me with the same feeling which now in his mind desecrated their memory .
When at last she left you , you lapsed at once into deep reverie : you *betook* *yourself* slowly to pace the gallery .
Your garb and manner were restricted by rule ; your air was often diffident , and altogether that of one refined by nature , but absolutely unused to society , and a good deal afraid of *making* *herself* disadvantageously conspicuous by some solecism or blunder ; yet when addressed , you lifted a keen , a daring , and a glowing eye to your interlocutor 's face : there was penetration and power in each glance you gave ; when plied by close questions , you found ready and round answers .
I *permitted* *myself* the delight of being kind to you ; kindness stirred emotion soon : your face became soft in expression , your tones gentle ; I liked my name pronounced by your lips in a grateful happy accent .
`` I do , '' *extricating* *myself* from restraint rapidly and completely .
The more solitary , the more friendless , the more unsustained I am , the more I will *respect* *myself* .
Conqueror I might be of the house ; but the inmate would escape to heaven before I could call *myself* *possessor* of its clay dwelling-place .
He turned away ; he *threw* *himself* on his face on the sofa .
He would *feel* *himself* forsaken ; his love rejected : he would suffer ; perhaps grow desperate .
In the midst of my pain of heart and frantic effort of principle , I *abhorred* *myself* .
It is the clergyman 's function to help -- at least with advice -- those who wished to *help* *themselves* .
And why can not I *reconcile* *myself* to the prospect of death ?
I began once more to *know* *myself* ; and when Mr. St. John demanded an account -- which at present I was far too weak to render -- I said after a brief pause --
After a weary process , and resting every five minutes , I succeeded in *dressing* *myself* .
`` Whatever can not ye *keep* *yourself* for , then ? ''
" I have *kept* *myself* ; and , I trust , shall *keep* *myself* again .
I feel more inclination to put you in the way of *keeping* *yourself* , and shall endeavour to do so ; but observe , my sphere is narrow .
Often , of an evening , when he sat at the window , his desk and papers before him , he would cease reading or writing , rest his chin on his hand , and *deliver* *himself* up to I know not what course of thought ; but that it was perturbed and exciting might be seen in the frequent flash and changeful dilation of his eye .
`` Yes ; I wish to know whether you have heard of any service I can *offer* *myself* to undertake ? ''
I am obscure : Rivers is an old name ; but of the three sole descendants of the race , two earn the dependant 's crust among strangers , and the third *considers* *himself* an alien from his native country -- not only for life , but in death .
" And since I am *myself* *poor* and obscure , I can offer you but a service of poverty and obscurity . _ You _ may even think it degrading -- for I see now your habits have been what the world calls refined : your tastes lean to the ideal , and your society has at least been amongst the educated ; but _ I _ consider that no service degrades which can better our race .
I shall leave the place probably in the course of a twelve-month ; but while I do stay , I will *exert* *myself* to the utmost for its improvement .
You hear now how I *contradict* *myself* .
Mary and I would have *esteemed* *ourselves* rich with a thousand pounds each ; and to St. John such a sum would have been valuable , for the good it would have enabled him to do . "
Not to *deceive* *myself* , I must reply -- No : I felt desolate to a degree .
But let me not hate and *despise* *myself* too much for these feelings ; I know them to be wrong -- that is a great step gained ; I shall strive to overcome them .
Meantime , let me *ask* *myself* one question -- Which is better ? -- To have surrendered to temptation ; listened to passion ; made no painful effort -- no struggle ; -- but to have sunk down in the silken snare ; fallen asleep on the flowers covering it ; wakened in a southern clime , amongst the luxuries of a pleasure villa : to have been now living in France , Mr. Rochester 's mistress ; delirious with his love half my time -- for he would -- oh , yes , he would have loved me well for a while .
While I looked , I *thought* *myself* happy , and was surprised to *find* *myself* ere long weeping -- and why ?
I naturally *asked* *myself* that question as I saw him turn to her and look at her ; and , as naturally , I sought the answer to the inquiry in his countenance .
There was a difference amongst them as amongst the educated ; and when I got to know them , and they me , this difference rapidly *developed* *itself* .
Many *showed* *themselves* obliging , and amiable too ; and I discovered amongst them not a few examples of natural politeness , and innate self-respect , as well as of excellent capacity , that won both my goodwill and my admiration .
I *promised* *myself* the pleasure of colouring it ; and , as it was getting late then , I told her she must come and sit another day .
I had also *made* *myself* neat , and had now the afternoon before me to spend as I would .
`` With all his firmness and self-control , '' thought I , " he *tasks* *himself* too far : locks every feeling and pang within -- expresses , confesses , imparts nothing .
And now it is deluged with a nectarous flood -- the young germs swamped -- delicious poison cankering them : now I see *myself* *stretched* on an ottoman in the drawing-room at Vale Hall at my bride Rosamond Oliver 's feet : she is talking to me with her sweet voice -- gazing down on me with those eyes your skilful hand has copied so well -- smiling at me with these coral lips .
When I colour , and when I shade before Miss Oliver , I do not *pity* *myself* .
`` You would *describe* *yourself* as a mere pagan philosopher , '' I said .
I *bethought* *myself* to talk about the school and my scholars .
Mrs. Reed kept the orphan ten years : whether it was happy or not with her , I can not say , never having been told ; but at the end of that time she transferred it to a place you know -- being no other than Lowood School , where you so long *resided* *yourself* .
One does not jump , and spring , and shout hurrah ! at hearing one has got a fortune ; one begins to consider responsibilities , and to ponder business ; on a base of steady satisfaction rise certain grave cares , and we *contain* *ourselves* , and brood over our bliss with a solemn brow .
`` No ; to-night ! -- to-night ! '' and as he turned from the door , I *placed* *myself* between it and him .
I stopped : I could not *trust* *myself* to entertain , much less to express , the thought that rushed upon me -- that *embodied* *itself* , -- that , in a second , stood out a strong , solid probability .
Circumstances *knit* *themselves* , *fitted* *themselves* , shot into order : the chain that had been lying hitherto a formless lump of links was drawn out straight , -- every ring was perfect , the connection complete .
Diana said they would both *consider* *themselves* rich with a thousand pounds , so with five thousand they will do very well . "
`` Perhaps , if you *explained* *yourself* a little more fully , I should comprehend better . ''
I like Moor House , and I will live at Moor House ; I like Diana and Mary , and I will *attach* *myself* for life to Diana and Mary .
" Jane , I excuse you for the present : two months ' grace I allow you for the full enjoyment of your new position , and for *pleasing* *yourself* with this late-found charm of relationship ; but _ then _ , I hope you will begin to look beyond Moor House and Morton , and sisterly society , and the selfish calm and sensual comfort of civilised affluence .
And try to restrain the disproportionate fervour with which you *throw* *yourself* into commonplace home pleasures .
I comprehended how he should *despise* *himself* for the feverish influence it exercised over him ; how he should wish to stifle and destroy it ; how he should mistrust its ever conducting permanently to his happiness or hers .
As I exchanged a translation for an exercise , I happened to look his way : there I *found* *myself* under the influence of the ever-watchful blue eye .
As for me , I daily wished more to please him ; but to do so , I felt daily more and more that I must disown half my nature , stifle half my faculties , wrest my tastes from their original bent , *force* *myself* to the adoption of pursuits for which I had no natural vocation .
Or who , that ever was truly called , believed *himself* *worthy* of the summons ?
With St. Paul , I *acknowledge* *myself* the chiefest of sinners ; but I do not suffer this sense of my personal vileness to daunt me .
Jane , you are docile , diligent , disinterested , faithful , constant , and courageous ; very gentle , and very heroic : cease to *mistrust* *yourself* -- I can trust you unreservedly .
My work , which had appeared so vague , so hopelessly diffuse , *condensed* *itself* as he proceeded , and assumed a definite form under his shaping hand .
`` Very willingly , '' he rejoined ; and rising , he strode a little distance up the pass , *threw* *himself* down on a swell of heath , and there lay still .
But as it is , either our union must be consecrated and sealed by marriage , or it can not exist : practical obstacles *oppose* *themselves* to any other plan .
I said briefly ; and I looked at his features , beautiful in their harmony , but strangely formidable in their still severity ; at his brow , commanding but not open ; at his eyes , bright and deep and searching , but never soft ; at his tall imposing figure ; and *fancied* *myself* in idea _ his wife _ .
Refuse to be my wife , and you *limit* *yourself* for ever to a track of selfish ease and barren obscurity .
St. John -- you know him -- would urge you to impossibilities : with him there would be no permission to rest during the hot hours ; and unfortunately , I have noticed , whatever he exacts , you *force* *yourself* to perform .
`` I must indeed , '' I said ; " for when just now I repeated the offer of serving him for a deacon , he *expressed* *himself* shocked at my want of decency .
" You should *hear* *himself* on the subject .
I mounted to my chamber ; *locked* *myself* in ; fell on my knees ; and prayed in my way -- a different way to St. John 's , but effective in its own fashion . I seemed to penetrate very near a Mighty Spirit ; and my soul rushed out in gratitude at His feet .
I *busied* *myself* for an hour or two with arranging my things in my chamber , drawers , and wardrobe , in the order wherein I should wish to leave them during a brief absence .
The suggestion was sensible , and yet I could not *force* *myself* to act on it .
The host *himself* *brought* my breakfast into the parlour .
It is excusable , for she had a hard life of it : but still it was dangerous ; for when Mrs. Poole was fast asleep after the gin and water , the mad lady , who was as cunning as a witch , would take the keys out of her pocket , *let* *herself* out of her chamber , and go roaming about the house , doing any wild mischief that came into her head .
He broke off acquaintance with all the gentry , and *shut* *himself* up like a hermit at the Hall . "
As he came down the great staircase at last , after Mrs. Rochester had *flung* *herself* from the battlements , there was a great crash -- all fell .
Iron gates between granite pillars showed me where to enter , and passing through them , I *found* *myself* at once in the twilight of close-ranked trees .
He suddenly seemed to *arouse* *himself* : the conviction of the reality of all this seized him .
`` But as you are rich , Jane , you have now , no doubt , friends who will look after you , and not suffer you to *devote* *yourself* to a blind lameter like me ? ''
But no hint to that effect escaping him and his countenance becoming more overcast , I suddenly remembered that I might have been all wrong , and was perhaps playing the fool unwittingly ; and I began gently to *withdraw* *myself* from his arms -- but he eagerly snatched me closer .
But I would not be lachrymose : I dashed off the salt drops , and *busied* *myself* with preparing breakfast .
Violent as he had seemed in his despair , he , in truth , loved me far too well and too tenderly to *constitute* *himself* my tyrant : he would have given me half his fortune , without demanding so much as a kiss in return , rather than I should have flung *myself* *friendless* on the wide world .
I *hold* *myself* supremely blest -- blest beyond what language can express ; because I am my husband 's life as fully as he is mine .
His is the exaction of the apostle , who speaks but for Christ , when he says -- `` Whosoever will come after me , let him *deny* *himself* , and take up his cross and follow me . '' His is the ambition of the high master-spirit , which aims to fill a place in the first rank of those who are redeemed from the earth -- who stand without fault before the throne of God , who share the last mighty victories of the Lamb , who are called , and chosen , and faithful .
*Himself* *has* hitherto sufficed to the toil , and the toil draws near its close : his glorious sun hastens to its setting .
The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way , and then dipped suddenly down , so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about *stopping* *herself* before she *found* *herself* falling down a very deep well .
There was not a moment to be lost : away went Alice like the wind , and was just in time to hear it say , as it turned a corner , ' Oh my ears and whiskers , how late it 's getting ! ' She was close behind it when she turned the corner , but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen : she *found* *herself* in a long , low hall , which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof .
After a while , finding that nothing more happened , she decided on going into the garden at once ; but , alas for poor Alice ! when she got to the door , she found she had forgotten the little golden key , and when she went back to the table for it , she found she could not possibly reach it : she could see it quite plainly through the glass , and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table , but it was too slippery ; and when she had *tired* *herself* out with trying , the poor little thing sat down and cried .
' Come , there 's no use in crying like that ! ' said Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute ! ' She generally *gave* *herself* very good advice , ( though she very seldom followed it ) , and sometimes she *scolded* *herself* so severely as to bring tears into her eyes ; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having *cheated* *herself* in a game of croquet she was playing against herself , for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people .
I 'm sure I sha n't be able ! I shall be a great deal too far off to *trouble* *myself* about you : you must manage the best way you can ; -- but I must be kind to them , ' thought Alice , ' or perhaps they wo n't walk the way I want to go !
Alice took up the fan and gloves , and , as the hall was very hot , she kept *fanning* *herself* all the time she went on talking : ' Dear , dear ! How queer everything is to-day !
' I must be growing small again . ' She got up and went to the table to *measure* *herself* by it , and found that , as nearly as she could guess , she was now about two feet high , and was going on shrinking rapidly : she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding , and she dropped it hastily , just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether .
' That was a narrow escape ! ' said Alice , a good deal frightened at the sudden change , but very glad to *find* *herself* still in existence ; ' and now for the garden ! ' and she ran with all speed back to the little door : but , alas ! the little door was shut again , and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before , ' and things are worse than ever , ' thought the poor child , ' for I never was so small as this before , never !
The first question of course was , how to get dry again : they had a consultation about this , and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find *herself* *talking* familiarly with them , as if she had known them all her life .
There was exactly one a-piece all round . ' But she must have a *prize* *herself* , you know , ' said the Mouse .
' A knot ! ' said Alice , always ready to *make* *herself* useful , and looking anxiously about her .
Some of the birds hurried off at once : one old Magpie began *wrapping* *itself* up very carefully , remarking , ' I really must be getting home ; the night-air does n't suit my throat ! ' and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to its children , ' Come away , my dears ! It 's high time you were all in bed ! '
Oh , I should n't like that ! " Oh , you foolish Alice ! ' she *answered* *herself* . ' How can you learn lessons in here ?
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared ; but she ran off as hard as she could , and soon found *herself* *safe* in a thick wood .
Hardly knowing what she did , she picked up a little bit of stick , and held it out to the puppy ; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once , with a yelp of delight , and rushed at the stick , and made believe to worry it ; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle , to *keep* *herself* from being run over ; and the moment she appeared on the other side , the puppy made another rush at the stick , and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it ; then Alice , thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse , and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet , ran round the thistle again ; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick , running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back , and barking hoarsely all the while , till at last it sat down a good way off , panting , with its tongue hanging out of its mouth , and its great eyes half shut .
' And yet what a dear little puppy it was ! ' said Alice , as she leant against a buttercup to *rest* *herself* , and *fanned* *herself* with one of the leaves : ' I should have liked teaching it tricks very much , if -- if I 'd only been the right size to do it !
She *stretched* *herself* up on tiptoe , and peeped over the edge of the mushroom , and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar , that was sitting on the top with its arms folded , quietly smoking a long hookah , and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else .
' What do you mean by that ? ' said the Caterpillar sternly . ' *Explain* *yourself* ! '
' I ca n't *explain* *myself* , I 'm afraid , sir ' said Alice , ' because I 'm not myself , you see . '
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar 's making such very short remarks , and she *drew* *herself* up and said , very gravely , ' I think , you ought to tell me who you are , first . '
' I have answered three questions , and that is enough , ' Said his father ; ' do n't *give* *yourself* airs ! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff ?
' It is a very good height indeed ! ' said the Caterpillar angrily , *rearing* *itself* upright as it spoke ( it was exactly three inches high ) .
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice , and *shook* *itself* .
After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands , and she set to work very carefully , nibbling first at one and then at the other , and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter , until she had succeeded in *bringing* *herself* down to her usual height .
' Whoever lives there , ' thought Alice , ' it 'll never do to come upon them this size : why , I should frighten them out of their wits ! ' So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again , and did not venture to go near the house till she had *brought* *herself* down to nine inches high .
The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it , and kept *doubling* *itself* up and *straightening* *itself* out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it was as much as she could do to hold it .
As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it , ( which was to twist it up into a sort of knot , and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot , so as to prevent its *undoing* *itself* , ) she carried it out into the open air . ' If I do n't take this child away with me , ' thought Alice , ' they 're sure to kill it in a day or two : would n't it be murder to leave it behind ? '
It was so large a house , that she did not like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom , and *raised* *herself* to about two feet high : even then she walked up towards it rather timidly , saying to herself ' Suppose it should be raving mad after all !
The Dormouse shook its head impatiently , and said , without opening its eyes , ' Of course , of course ; just what I was going to *remark* *myself* . '
Here the Dormouse *shook* *itself* , and began singing in its sleep ' Twinkle , twinkle , twinkle , twinkle -- ' and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop .
Alice did not quite know what to say to this : so she *helped* *herself* to some tea and bread-and-butter , and then turned to the Dormouse , and repeated her question . ' Why did they live at the bottom of a well ? '
Once more she *found* *herself* in the long hall , and close to the little glass table . ' Now , I 'll manage better this time , ' she said to herself , and began by taking the little golden key , and unlocking the door that led into the garden .
Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom ( she had kept a piece of it in her pocket ) till she was about a foot high : then she walked down the little passage : and then -- she *found* *herself* at last in the beautiful garden , among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains .
Seven flung down his brush , and had just begun ' Well , of all the unjust things -- ' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice , as she stood watching them , and he *checked* *himself* suddenly : the others looked round also , and all of them bowed low .
So you see , Miss , we 're doing our best , afore she comes , to -- ' At this moment Five , who had been anxiously looking across the garden , called out ' The Queen ! The Queen ! ' and the three gardeners instantly *threw* *themselves* flat upon their faces .
He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke , and then *raised* *himself* upon tiptoe , put his mouth close to her ear , and whispered ' She 's under sentence of execution . '
Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in her life ; it was all ridges and furrows ; the balls were live hedgehogs , the mallets live flamingoes , and the soldiers had to *double* *themselves* up and to stand on their hands and feet , to make the arches .
The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo : she succeeded in getting its body tucked away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with its legs hanging down , but generally , just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out , and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head , it would twist *itself* *round* and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing : and when she had got its head down , and was going to begin again , it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself , and was in the act of crawling away : besides all this , there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to , and , as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground , Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed .
' I do n't think they play at all fairly , ' Alice began , in rather a complaining tone , ' and they all quarrel so dreadfully one ca n't hear *oneself* *speak* -- and they do n't seem to have any rules in particular ; at least , if there are , nobody attends to them -- and you 've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive ; for instance , there 's the arch I 've got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground -- and I should have croqueted the Queen 's hedgehog just now , only it ran away when it saw mine coming ! '
' Everything 's got a moral , if only you can find it . ' And she *squeezed* *herself* up closer to Alice 's side as she spoke .
' I quite agree with you , ' said the Duchess ; ' and the moral of that is -- `` Be what you would seem to be '' -- or if you 'd like it put more simply -- `` Never *imagine* *yourself* not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise . '' '
' Pray do n't *trouble* *yourself* to say it any longer than that , ' said Alice .
' You may not have lived much under the sea -- ' ( ' I have n't , ' said Alice ) -- ' and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster -- ' ( Alice began to say ' I once tasted -- ' but *checked* *herself* hastily , and said ' No , never ' )
' Yes , ' said Alice , ' I 've often seen them at dinn -- ' she *checked* *herself* hastily .
At this the whole pack rose up into the air , and came flying down upon her : she gave a little scream , half of fright and half of anger , and tried to beat them off , and found *herself* *lying* on the bank , with her head in the lap of her sister , who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face .
So she sat on , with closed eyes , and half *believed* *herself* in Wonderland , though she knew she had but to open them again , and all would change to dull reality -- the grass would be only rustling in the wind , and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds -- the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells , and the Queen 's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy -- and the sneeze of the baby , the shriek of the Gryphon , and all the other queer noises , would change ( she knew ) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard -- while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle 's heavy sobs .
For two hundred francs a year he managed to live on the border of the provinces of Caux and Picardy , in a kind of place half farm , half private house ; and here , soured , eaten up with regrets , cursing his luck , jealous of everyone , he *shut* *himself* up at the age of forty-five , sick of men , he said , and determined to live at peace .
She called on the lawyers , the president , remembered when bills fell due , got them renewed , and at home ironed , sewed , washed , looked after the workmen , paid the accounts , while he , *troubling* *himself* about nothing , eternally besotted in sleepy sulkiness , whence he only *roused* *himself* to say disagreeable things to her , sat smoking by the fire and spitting into the cinders .
To *shut* *himself* up every evening in the dirty public room , to push about on marble tables the small sheep bones with black dots , seemed to him a fine proof of his freedom , which raised him in his own esteem .
Still sleepy from the warmth of his bed , he *let* *himself* be lulled by the quiet trot of his horse .
By his side on a chair stood a large decanter of brandy , whence he *poured* *himself* a little from time to time to keep up his spirits ; but as soon as he caught sight of the doctor his elation subsided , and instead of swearing , as he had been doing for the last twelve hours , began to groan freely .
She *drew* *herself* up , scarlet , and looked at him over her shoulder as she handed him his whip .
As to Charles , he did not stop to *ask* *himself* why it was a pleasure to him to go to the Bertaux . Had he done so , he would , no doubt , have attributed his zeal to the importance of the case , or perhaps to the money he hoped to make by it . Was it for this , however , that his visits to the farm formed a delightful exception to the meagre occupations of his life ? On these days he rose early , set off at a gallop , urging on his horse , then got down to wipe his boots in the grass and put on black gloves before entering . He liked going into the courtyard , and noticing the gate turn against his shoulder , the cock crow on the wall , the lads run to meet him . He liked the granary and the stables ; he liked old Rouault , who pressed his hand and called him his saviour ; he like the small wooden shoes of Mademoiselle Emma on the scoured flags of the kitchen - her high heels made her a little taller ; and when she walked in front of him , the wooden soles springing up quickly struck with a sharp sound against the leather of her boots .
At first she *solaced* *herself* by allusions that Charles did not understand , then by casual observations that he let pass for fear of a storm , finally by open apostrophes to which he knew not what to answer .
It is not worth while making such a fuss , or *showing* *herself* at church on Sundays in a silk gown like a countess .
`` I know what it is , '' said he , clapping him on the shoulder ; `` I 've been through it . When I lost my dear departed , I went into the fields to be quite alone . I fell at the foot of a tree ; I cried ; I called on God ; I talked nonsense to Him . I wanted to be like the moles that I saw on the branches , their insides swarming with worms , dead , and an end of it . And when I thought that there were others at that very moment with their nice little wives holding them in their embrace , I struck great blows on the earth with my stick . I was pretty well mad with not eating ; the very idea of going to a cafe disgusted me - you would n't believe it . Well , quite softly , one day following another , a spring on a winter , and an autumn after a summer , this wore away , piece by piece , crumb by crumb ; it passed away , it is gone , I should say it has sunk ; for something always remains at the bottom as one would say - a weight here , at one 's heart . But since it is the lot of all of us , one must not give way altogether , and , because others have died , want to die too . You must *pull* *yourself* together , Monsieur Bovary . It will pass away . Come to see us ; my daughter thinks of you now and again , do you know , and she says you are forgetting her . Spring will soon be here . We 'll have some rabbit-shooting in the warrens to amuse you a bit . ''
Charles *found* *himself* laughing , but the remembrance of his wife suddenly coming back to him depressed him .
He could now change his meal-times , go in or out without explanation , and when he was very tired *stretch* *himself* at full length on his bed .
So he nursed and *coddled* *himself* and accepted the consolations that were offered him .
He had an aimless hope , and was vaguely happy ; he *thought* *himself* better looking as he brushed his whiskers before the looking-glass .
Some flies on the table were crawling up the glasses that had been used , and buzzing as they *drowned* *themselves* in the dregs of the cider .
But he never saw her in his thoughts other than he had seen her the first time , or as he had just left her . Then he *asked* *himself* what would become of her - if she would be married , and to whom !
Thinking that , after all , he should lose nothing , Charles *promised* *himself* to ask her in marriage as soon as occasion offered , but each time such occasion did offer the fear of not finding the right words sealed his lips .
Charles *gave* *himself* as far as to the corner of the hedge , and at last , when past it -
Emma blushed as he entered , and she gave a little forced laugh to *keep* *herself* in countenance .
Part of it was ordered at Rouen , and she made *herself* *chemises* and nightcaps after fashion-plates that she borrowed .
Then came the married pair , the relations , the friends , all following pell-mell ; the children stayed behind *amusing* *themselves* plucking the bell-flowers from oat-ears , or playing amongst themselves unseen .
To begin with , at its base there was a square of blue cardboard , representing a temple with porticoes , colonnades , and stucco statuettes all round , and in the niches constellations of gilt paper stars ; then on the second stage was a dungeon of Savoy cake , surrounded by many fortifications in candied angelica , almonds , raisins , and quarters of oranges ; and finally , on the upper platform a green field with rocks set in lakes of jam , nutshell boats , and a small Cupid *balancing* *himself* in a chocolate swing whose two uprights ended in real roses for balls at the top .
In his heart he accused old Rouault of being proud , and he joined four or five other guests in a corner , who having , through mere chance , been several times running served with the worst helps of meat , also were of opinion they had been badly used , and were whispering about their host , and with covered hints hoping he would *ruin* *himself* .
Old Rouault had them driven back in his cart , and *himself* *accompanied* them as far as Vassonville . Here he embraced his daughter for the last time , got down , and went his way .
The old servant *presented* *herself* , curtsied to her , apologised for not having dinner ready , and suggested that madame , in the meantime , should look over her house .
During the first days she *occupied* *herself* in thinking about changes in the house .
His own eyes *lost* *themselves* in these depths ; he *saw* *himself* in miniature down to the shoulders , with his handkerchief round his head and the top of his shirt open .
For him the universe did not extend beyond the circumference of her petticoat , and he *reproached* *himself* with not loving her .
Before marriage she *thought* *herself* in love ; but the happiness that should have followed this love not having come , she must , she thought , have been mistaken .
When she was thirteen , her *father* *himself* took her to town to place her in the convent .
She told stories , gave them news , went errands in the town , and on the sly lent the big girls some novel , that she always carried in the pockets of her apron , and of which the good lady *herself* *swallowed* long chapters in the intervals of her work .
She *let* *herself* glide along with Lamartine meanderings , listened to harps on lakes , to all the songs of dying swans , to the falling of the leaves , the pure virgins ascending to heaven , and the voice of the Eternal discoursing down the valleys . She wearied of it , would not confess it , continued from habit , and at last was surprised to *feel* *herself* soothed , and with no more sadness at heart than wrinkles on her brow .
And yet , in accord with theories she believed right , she wanted to *make* *herself* in love with him .
By moonlight in the garden she recited all the passionate rhymes she knew by heart , and , sighing , sang to him many melancholy adagios ; but she *found* *herself* as calm after as before , and Charles seemed no more amorous and no more moved .
When she had thus for a while struck the flint on her heart without getting a spark , incapable , moreover , of understanding what she did not experience as of believing anything that did not *present* *itself* in conventional forms , she *persuaded* *herself* without difficulty that Charles 's passion was nothing very exorbitant .
She *asked* *herself* if by some other chance combination it would have not been possible to meet another man ; and she tried to imagine what would have been these unrealised events , this different life , this unknown husband .
A fear took hold of her ; she called Djali , and hurriedly returned to Tostes by the high road , *threw* *herself* into an armchair , and for the rest of the evening did not speak .
The Marquis opened the drawing room door ; one of the ladies ( the *Marchioness* *herself* ) came to meet Emma .
Emma , on entering , felt *herself* *wrapped* round by the warm air , a blending of the perfume of flowers and of the fine linen , of the fumes of the viands , and the odour of the truffles . The silver dish covers reflected the lighted wax candles in the candelabra , the cut crystal covered with light steam reflected from one to the other pale rays ; bouquets were placed in a row the whole length of the table ; and in the large-bordered plates each napkin , arranged after the fashion of a bishop 's mitre , held between its two gaping folds a small oval shaped roll . The red claws of lobsters hung over the dishes ; rich fruit in open baskets was piled up on moss ; there were quails in their plumage ; smoke was rising ; and in silk stockings , knee-breeches , white cravat , and frilled shirt , the steward , grave as a judge , offering ready carved dishes between the shoulders of the guests , with a touch of the spoon gave you the piece chosen . On the large stove of porcelain inlaid with copper baguettes the statue of a woman , draped to the chin , gazed motionless on the room full of life .
She went downstairs *restraining* *herself* from running .
A few men ( some fifteen or so ) , of twenty-five to forty , scattered here and there among the dancers or talking at the doorways , *distinguished* *themselves* from the crowd by a certain air of breeding , whatever their differences in age , dress , or face .
She saw the farm again , the muddy pond , her father in a blouse under the apple trees , and she *saw* *herself* again as formerly , skimming with her finger the cream off the milk-pans in the dairy .
Charles *dragged* *himself* up by the balusters .
And she tried to *keep* *herself* awake in order to prolong the illusion of this luxurious life that she would soon have to give up .
`` Leave the room ! '' said Emma . " You are *forgetting* *yourself* .
Then they *warmed* *themselves* in the kitchen while their room was being made ready .
`` You 'll *make* *yourself* ill , '' she said scornfully .
Emma perceived only two or three that hid from her all the rest , and in *themselves* *represented* all humanity .
She had *bought* *herself* a blotting book , writing case , pen-holder , and envelopes , although she had no one to write to ; she dusted her what-not , looked at herself in the glass , picked up a book , and then , dreaming between the lines , let it drop on her knees .
But she was angered with shame ; she felt a wild desire to strike him ; she went to open the window in the passage and breathed in the fresh air to *calm* *herself* .
Since she could never , in a velvet gown with short sleeves , striking with her light fingers the ivory keys of an Erard at a concert , feel the murmur of ecstasy envelop her like a breeze , it was not worth while *boring* *herself* with practicing .
Charles was a slow eater ; she played with a few nuts , or , leaning on her elbow , *amused* *herself* with drawing lines along the oilcloth table cover with the point of her knife .
Towards the end of February old Rouault , in memory of his cure , *himself* *brought* his son-in-law a superb turkey , and stayed three days at Tostes .
Moreover she no longer concealed her contempt for anything or anybody , and at times she *set* *herself* to express singular opinions , finding fault with that which others approved , and approving things perverse and immoral , all of which made her husband open his eyes widely .
Yonville-l 'Abbaye ( so called from an old Capuchin abbey of which not even the ruins remain ) is a market-town twenty-four miles from Rouen , between the Abbeville and Beauvais roads , at the foot of a valley watered by the Rieule , a little river that runs into the Andelle after turning three water-mills near its mouth , where there are a few trout that the lads *amuse* *themselves* by fishing for on Sundays .
Clever at all games of cards , a good hunter , and writing a fine hand , he had at home a lathe , and *amused* *himself* by turning napkin rings , with which he filled up his house , with the jealousy of an artist and the egotism of a bourgeois .
And I ca n't admit of an old boy of a God who takes walks in his garden with a cane in his hand , who lodges his friends in the belly of whales , dies uttering a cry , and rises again at the end of three days ; things absurd in themselves , and completely opposed , moreover , to all physical laws , which prove to us , by the way , that priests have always wallowed in turpid ignorance , in which they would *fain* *engulf* the people with them . "
He ceased , looking round for an audience , for in his bubbling over the chemist had for a moment *fancied* *himself* in the midst of the town council .
Homais *introduced* *himself* ; he offered his homages to madame and his respects to monsieur ; said he was charmed to have been able to render them some slight service , and added with a cordial air that he had ventured to *invite* *himself* , his wife being away .
`` But , '' Leon went on , *addressing* *himself* to Madame Bovary , `` nothing , it seems to me , is more pleasant - when one can , '' he added .
`` Moreover , '' said the druggist , `` the practice of medicine is not very hard work in our part of the world , for the state of our roads allows us the use of gigs , and generally , as the farmers are prosperous , they pay pretty well . We have , medically speaking , besides the ordinary cases of enteritis , bronchitis , bilious affections , etc . , now and then a few intermittent fevers at harvest-time ; but on the whole , little of a serious nature , nothing special to note , unless it be a great deal of scrofula , due , no doubt , to the deplorable hygienic conditions of our peasant dwellings . Ah ! you will find many prejudices to combat , Monsieur Bovary , much obstinacy of routine , with which all the efforts of your science will daily come into collision ; for people still have recourse to novenas , to relics , to the priest , rather than come straight to the doctor or the chemist . The climate , however , is not , truth to tell , bad , and we even have a few nonagenarians in our parish . The thermometer ( I have made some observations ) falls in winter to 4 degrees Centigrade at the outside , which gives us 24 degrees Reaumur as the maximum , or otherwise 54 degrees Fahrenheit ( English scale ) , not more . And , as a matter of fact , we are sheltered from the north winds by the forest of Argueil on the one side , from the west winds by the St. Jean range on the other ; and this heat , moreover , which , on account of the aqueous vapours given off by the river and the considerable number of cattle in the fields , which , as you know , exhale much ammonia , that is to say , nitrogen , hydrogen and oxygen ( no , nitrogen and hydrogen alone ) , and which sucking up into itself the humus from the ground , mixing together all those different emanations , unites them into a stack , so to say , and combining with the electricity diffused through the atmosphere , when there is any , might in the long run , as in tropical countries , engender insalubrious miasmata - this heat , I say , finds itself perfectly tempered on the side whence it comes , or rather whence it should come - that is to say , the southern side - by the south-eastern winds , which , having *cooled* *themselves* passing over the Seine , reach us sometimes all at once like breezes from Russia . ''
`` As I had the honour of putting it to your husband , '' said the chemist , " with regard to this poor Yanoda who has run away , you will *find* *yourself* , thanks to his extravagance , in the possession of one of the most comfortable houses of Yonville .
Motionless we traverse countries we fancy we see , and your thought , blending with the fiction , playing with the details , follows the outline of the adventures . It mingles with the characters , and it seems as if it were *yourself* *palpitating* beneath their costumes . "
She did not believe that things could *present* *themselves* in the same way in different places , and since the portion of her life lived had been bad , no doubt that which remained to be lived would be better .
He gave Madame Bovary information as to the trades-people , sent expressly for his own cider merchant , tasted the *drink* *himself* , and saw that the casks were properly placed in the cellar ; he explained how to set about getting in a supply of butter cheap , and made an arrangement with Lestiboudois , the sacristan , who , besides his sacerdotal and funeral functions , looked after the principal gardens at Yonville by the hour or the year , according to the taste of the customers .
Then for diversion he *employed* *himself* at home as a workman ; he even tried to do up the attic with some paint which had been left behind by the painters .
It was another bond of the flesh *establishing* *itself* , and , as it were , a continued sentiment of a more complex union .
Thus she did not *amuse* *herself* with those preparations that stimulate the tenderness of mothers , and so her affection was from the very outset , perhaps , to some extent attenuated .
Whilst she was getting well she *occupied* *herself* much in seeking a name for her daughter .
That same evening this was known in Yonville , and Madame Tuvache , the mayor 's wife , declared in the presence of her servant that `` Madame Bovary was *compromising* *herself* . ''
She took it up in the wrapping that enveloped it and began singing softly as she *rocked* *herself* to and fro .
It flowed noiselessly , swift , and cold to the eye ; long , thin grasses huddled together in it as the current drove them , and *spread* *themselves* upon the limpid water like streaming hair ; sometimes at the tip of the reeds or on the leaf of a water-lily an insect with fine legs crawled or rested .
Yet their eyes were full of more serious speech , and while they *forced* *themselves* to find trivial phrases , they felt the same languor stealing over them both .
From her turned-up hair a dark colour fell over her back , and growing gradually paler , lost *itself* *little* by little in the shade .
Then the three hundred finished , they both *stretched* *themselves* out in front of the fire , and were soon asleep .
Monsieur Bovary , little given to jealousy , did not *trouble* *himself* about it .
He *tortured* *himself* to find out how he could make his declaration to her , and always halting between the fear of displeasing her and the shame of being such a coward , he wept with discouragement and desire .
As to Emma , she did not *ask* *herself* whether she loved .
`` Wretched boy ! '' suddenly cried the chemist . And he ran to his son , who had just *precipitated* *himself* into a heap of lime in order to whiten his boots .
In the evening Madame Bovary did not go to her neighbour 's , and when Charles had left and she *felt* *herself* alone , the comparison re-began with the clearness of a sensation almost actual , and with that lengthening of perspective which memory gives to things . Looking from her bed at the clean fire that was burning , she still saw , as she had down there , Leon standing up with one hand behind his cane , and with the other holding Athalie , who was quietly sucking a piece of ice . She thought him charming ; she could not *tear* *herself* away from him ; she recalled his other attitudes on other days , the words he had spoken , the sound of his voice , his whole person ; and she repeated , pouting out her lips as if for a kiss -
`` Yes , charming ! charming ! Is he not in love ? '' she *asked* *herself* ; " but with whom ?
Polite to obsequiousness , he always *held* *himself* with his back bent in the position of one who bows or who invites .
`` How have I displeased her ? '' he *asked* *himself* .
She was so sad and so calm , at once so gentle and so reserved , that near her one *felt* *oneself* seized by an icy charm , as we shudder in churches at the perfume of the flowers mingling with the cold of the marble .
She *concerned* *herself* about his comings and goings ; she watched his face ; she invented quite a history to find an excuse for going to his room .
Then the lusts of the flesh , the longing for money , and the melancholy of passion all *blended* *themselves* into one suffering , and instead of turning her thoughts from it , she clave to it the more , *urging* *herself* to pain , and seeking everywhere occasion for it . She was irritated by an ill-served dish or by a half-open door ; bewailed the velvets she had not , the happiness she had missed , her too exalted dreams , her narrow home .
She would have liked Charles to beat her , that she might have a better right to hate him , to *revenge* *herself* upon him .
With this repeated tinkling the thoughts of the young woman *lost* *themselves* in old memories of her youth and school-days .
At mass on Sundays , when she looked up , she saw the gentle face of the Virgin amid the blue smoke of the rising incense . Then she was moved ; she *felt* *herself* weak and quite deserted , like the down of a bird whirled by the tempest , and it was unconsciously that she went towards the church , included to no matter what devotions , so that her soul was absorbed and all existence lost in it .
`` Where is the cure ? '' asked Madame Bovary of one of the lads , who was *amusing* *himself* by shaking a swivel in a hole too large for it .
Then , *bethinking* *himself* , " But you were asking me something ?
One can not lead them too soon into the path of the Lord , as , moreover , he has *himself* *recommended* us to do by the mouth of his Divine Son .
She went up the steps of the staircase holding on to the banisters , and when she was in her room *threw* *herself* into an arm-chair .
The furniture in its place seemed to have become more immobile , and to *lose* *itself* in the shadow as in an ocean of darkness .
Madame Bovary sprang to lift her up , broke the bell-rope , called for the servant with all her might , and she was just going to *curse* *herself* when Charles appeared .
`` Look , dear ! '' said Emma , in a calm voice , `` the little one fell down while she was playing , and has *hurt* *herself* . ''
`` I assure you it 's nothing . '' he said , kissing her on the forehead . `` Do n't worry , my poor darling ; you will *make* *yourself* ill . ''
Although he had not seemed much moved , Homais , nevertheless , had *exerted* *himself* to buoy him up , to `` keep up his spirits . ''
`` Can he suspect anything ? '' Leon *asked* *himself* .
At last , Charles , having shut the door , asked him to *see* *himself* what would be the price at Rouen of a fine daguerreotypes .
All the same , his companion seemed very strange to him , for Leon often *threw* *himself* back in his chair , and stretching out his arms . Complained vaguely of life .
An individual *presents* *himself* , well dressed , even wearing an order , and whom one would take for a diplomatist .
He approaches you , he *insinuates* *himself* ; offers you a pinch of snuff , or picks up your hat .
And she *cursed* *herself* for not having loved Leon .
The wish took possession of her to run after and rejoin him , *throw* *herself* into his arms and say to him , `` It is I ; I am yours . ''
The flames , however , subsided , either because the supply had *exhausted* *itself* , or because it had been piled up too much .
In the supineness of her conscience she even took her repugnance towards her husband for aspirations towards her lover , the burning of hate for the warmth of tenderness ; but as the tempest still raged , and as passion *burnt* *itself* down to the very cinders , and no help came , no sun rose , there was night on all sides , and she was lost in the terrible cold that pierced her .
She *thought* *herself* now far more unhappy ; for she had the experience of grief , with the certainty that it would not end .
" She wants to be forced to *occupy* *herself* with some manual work .
She was , when she passed through Rouen , to *go* *herself* to the lending-library and represent that Emma had discontinued her subscription .
The window in the provinces replaces the theatre and the promenade , she was *amusing* *herself* with watching the crowd of boors when she saw a gentleman in a green velvet coat .
It was not from territorial vanity that the new arrival added `` of La Huchette '' to his name , but to *make* *himself* the better known .
La Huchette , in fact , was an estate near Yonville , where he had just bought the chateau and two farms that he *cultivated* *himself* , without , however , troubling very much about them .
Here 's a fine fitness for practising pharmacy later on ; for under serious circumstances you may be called before the tribunals in order to enlighten the minds of the magistrates , and you would have to keep your head then , to reason , *show* *yourself* a man , or else pass for an imbecile . "
Monsieur Boulanger , however , dismissed his servant , advising him to *calm* *himself* , since his fancy was over .
He *asked* *himself* -
I 'll send them venison , poultry ; I 'll *have* *myself* bled , if need be .
`` What 's the meaning of that ? '' he *asked* *himself* .
`` Why , '' he went on , `` *allow* *oneself* to be intruded upon by others ? And as to-day I have the happiness of being with you - ''
I seem so , because in the midst of the world I know how to wear the mask of a scoffer upon my face ; and yet , how many a time at the sight of a cemetery by moonlight have I not *asked* *myself* whether it were not better to join those sleeping there ! "
Monsieur Tuvache answered them with compliments ; the other *confessed* *himself* nervous ; and they remained thus , face to face , their foreheads almost touching , with the members of the jury all round , the municipal council , the notable personages , the National Guard and the crowd .
`` Oh , you are *slandering* *yourself* , '' said Emma .
They need by turns to dream and to act , the purest passions and the most turbulent joys , and thus they *fling* *themselves* into all sorts of fantasies , of follies . "
And , gentlemen , I do not mean that superficial intelligence , vain ornament of idle minds , but rather that profound and balanced intelligence that *applies* *itself* above all else to useful objects , thus contributing to the good of all , to the common amelioration and to the support of the state , born of respect for law and the practice of duty - "
For how should we *clothe* *ourselves* , how nourish ourselves , without the agriculturist ?
His was not perhaps so florid as that of the councillor , but it *recommended* *itself* by a more direct style , that is to say , by more special knowledge and more elevated considerations .
Monsieur Derozerays *set* *himself* this problem .
She did not *present* *herself* , and one could hear voices whispering -
It was the first time that she *found* *herself* in the midst of so large a company , and inwardly scared by the flags , the drums , the gentlemen in frock-coats , and the order of the councillor , she stood motionless , not knowing whether to advance or run away , nor why the crowd was pushing her and the jury were smiling at her .
Each one *stuffed* *himself* on his own account .
`` Perhaps you would not do ill , '' Homais said to him , `` to send one of your men , or to *go* *yourself* - ''
Then touching on the entry of the councillor , he did not forget `` the martial air of our militia ; '' nor `` our most merry village maidens ; '' nor the `` bald-headed old men like patriarchs who were there , and of whom some , the remnants of our phalanxes , still felt their hearts beat at the manly sound of the drums . '' He *cited* *himself* among the first of the members of the jury , and he even called attention in a note to the fact that Monsieur Homais , chemist , had sent a memoir on cider to the agricultural society .
One would have called it a veritable kaleidoscope , a real operatic scene ; and for a moment our little locality might have *thought* *itself* transported into the midst of a dream of the ' Thousand and One Nights . '
Of this the other took advantage to *pull* *himself* together a little .
Her figure slightly bent , her hand well up , and her right arm stretched out , she *gave* *herself* up to the cadence of the movement that rocked her in her saddle .
She feebly tried to *disengage* *herself* .
She threw back her white neck , swelling with a sigh , and faltering , in tears , with a long shudder and hiding her face , she *gave* *herself* up to him -
And as soon as she had got rid of Charles she went and *shut* *herself* up in her room .
But when she *saw* *herself* in the glass she wondered at her face .
She *became* *herself* , as it were , an actual part of these imaginings , and realised the love-dream of her youth as she *saw* *herself* in this type of amorous women whom she had so envied .
This idea made her pant with desire , and she soon *found* *herself* in the middle of the field , walking with rapid steps , without looking behind her .
At last he declared with a serious air that her visits were becoming imprudent - that she was *compromising* *herself* .
The tax-collector was thus trying to hide the fright he had had , for a prefectorial order having prohibited duckhunting except in boats , Monsieur Binet , despite his respect for the laws , was infringing them , and so he every moment expected to see the rural guard turn up . But this anxiety whetted his pleasure , and , all alone in his tub , he *congratulated* *himself* on his luck and on his cuteness . At sight of Emma he seemed relieved from a great weight , and at once entered upon a conversation .
*Warm* *yourself* at the stove in the meantime .
Binet explained that he wanted a corrosive to *make* *himself* some copperwater with which to remove rust from his hunting things .
`` Why , to *defend* *yourself* , '' replied Emma .
The humiliation of *feeling* *herself* weak was turning to rancour , tempered by their voluptuous pleasures .
When he did come , she *showed* *herself* cold and almost contemptuous .
She even *asked* *herself* why she detested Charles ; if it had not been better to have been able to love him ?
Charles , urged by the druggist and by her , *allowed* *himself* to be persuaded .
She *threw* *herself* on his neck ; they sat down to table ; he ate much , and at dessert he even wanted to take a cup of coffee , a luxury he only *permitted* *himself* on Sundays when there was company .
They talked about their future fortune , of the improvements to be made in their house ; he saw people 's estimation of him growing , his comforts increasing , his wife always loving him ; and she was happy to *refresh* *herself* with a new sentiment , healthier , better , to feel at last some tenderness for this poor fellow who adored her .
Thus on Tuesday our little town of Yonville *found* *itself* the scene of a surgical operation which is at the same time an act of loftiest philanthropy .
He appeared *himself* *breathless* , red , anxious , and asking everyone who was going up the stairs -
With many precautions , in order not to disturb the position of the limb , the box was removed , and an awful sight *presented* *itself* .
Hippolyte began to *worry* *himself* , and Mere Lefrancois , had him installed in the little room near the kitchen , so that he might at least have some distraction .
You *coddle* *yourself* like a king !
Bovary *himself* *turned* sick at it .
And the doctor left , always recommending him to *diet* *himself* .
He began by pitying his sufferings , declaring at the same time that he ought to rejoice at them since it was the will of the Lord , and take advantage of the occasion to *reconcile* *himself* to Heaven .
He came in his gig , which he *drove* *himself* .
Homais *presented* *himself* .
He *saw* *himself* dishonoured , ruined , lost ; and his imagination , assailed by a world of hypotheses , tossed amongst them like an empty cask borne by the sea and floating upon the waves .
How was it that she - she , who was so intelligent - could have *allowed* *herself* to be deceived again ? and through what deplorable madness had she thus ruined her life by continual sacrifices ? She recalled all her instincts of luxury , all the privations of her soul , the sordidness of marriage , of the household , her dream sinking into the mire like wounded swallows ; all that she had longed for , all that she had *denied* *herself* , all that she might have had ! And for what ? for what ?
" Be calm ; *compose* *yourself* .
Never had Charles seemed to her so disagreeable , to have such stodgy fingers , such vulgar ways , to be so dull as when they *found* *themselves* together after her meeting with Rodolphe .
She *loaded* *herself* with bracelets , rings , and necklaces .
Emma had a number in her cupboard that she squandered one after the other , without Charles *allowing* *himself* the slightest observation .
He chatted with her about the new goods from Paris , about a thousand feminine trifles , *made* *himself* very obliging , and never asked for his money .
I *ask* *myself* , Where is he ?
First , Charles had not attended to her advice about the forbidding of novels ; then the `` ways of the house '' annoyed her ; she *allowed* *herself* to make some remarks , and there were quarrels , especially one on account of Felicite .
Then , having gone up again to her room , she threw *herself* *flat* on her bed and cried there like a child , her face buried in the pillow .
She *threw* *herself* into his arms .
A love like ours ought to *show* *itself* in the face of heaven .
And she *threw* *herself* upon his mouth , as if to seize there the unexpected consent if breathed forth in a kiss .
Emma , in fact , was *showing* *herself* more docile , and even carried her deference so far as to ask for a recipe for pickling gherkins .
He pictured her to *himself* *working* in the evening by their side beneath the light of the lamp ; she would embroider him slippers ; she would look after the house ; she would fill all the home with her charm and her gaiety .
`` And , '' said Madame Bovary , taking her watch from her belt , `` take this ; you can *pay* *yourself* out of it . ''
`` For , after all , '' he exclaimed , gesticulating , `` I ca n't *exile* *myself* - have a child on my hands . ''
He was saying these things to *give* *himself* firmness .
In fact , these women , rushing at once into his thoughts , cramped each other and lessened , as reduced to a uniform level of love that equalised them all . So taking handfuls of the mixed-up letters , he *amused* *himself* for some moments with letting them fall in cascades from his right into his left hand . At last , bored and weary , Rodolphe took back the box to the cupboard , saying to himself , `` What a lot of rubbish ! '' Which summed up his opinion ; for pleasures , like schoolboys in a school courtyard , had so trampled upon his heart that no green thing grew there , and that which passed through it , more heedless than children , did not even , like them , leave a name carved upon the wall .
For I am going to *punish* *myself* by exile for all the ill I have done you .
Then she tried to *calm* *herself* ; she recalled the letter ; she must finish it ; she did not dare to . And where ?
The slates threw straight down a heavy heat that gripped her temples , stifled her ; she *dragged* *herself* to the closed garret-window .
The blue of the heavens suffused her , the air was whirling in her hollow head ; she had but to yield , to *let* *herself* be taken ; and the humming of the lathe never ceased , like an angry voice calling her .
Then she unfolded her napkin as if to examine the darns , and she really thought of *applying* *herself* to this work , counting the threads in the linen .
He *absents* *himself* like that from time to time for a change , and , ma foi , I think he 's right , when one has a fortune and is a bachelor .
`` Speak to us , '' said Charles ; " *collect* *yourself* ; it is your Charles , who loves you .
She *drew* *herself* up slowly , shading her eyes with her hand to look .
`` You will *tire* *yourself* , my darling ! '' said Bovary . And , pushing her gently to make her go into the arbour , `` Sit down on this seat ; you 'll be comfortable . ''
Charles several times *asked* *himself* by what means he should next year be able to pay back so much money .
He *reproached* *himself* with forgetting Emma , as if , all his thoughts belonging to this woman , it was robbing her of something not to be constantly thinking of her .
One day , when at the height of her illness , she had thought *herself* *dying* , and had asked for the communion ; and , while they were making the preparations in her room for the sacrament , while they were turning the night table covered with syrups into an altar , and while Felicite was strewing dahlia flowers on the floor , Emma felt some power passing over her that freed her from her pains , from all perception , from all feeling .
Madame Bovary 's mind was not yet sufficiently clear to *apply* *herself* seriously to anything ; moreover , she began this reading in too much hurry .
Nevertheless , she persevered ; and when the volume slipped from her hands , she fancied *herself* *seized* with the finest Catholic melancholy that an ethereal soul could conceive .
This searching after faith , she thought , was only one merit the more , and in the pride of her devoutness Emma *compared* *herself* to those grand ladies of long ago whose glory she , had dreamed of over a portrait of La Valliere , and who , trailing with so much majesty the lace-trimmed trains of their long gowns , retired into solitudes to shed at the feet of Christ all the tears of hearts that life had wounded .
Then she *gave* *herself* up to excessive charity .
And without waiting for any answer from Felicite , who was blushing , she added , `` There ! run along ; *enjoy* *yourself* ! ''
The ecclesiastic *contented* *himself* with uttering a groan , and the chemist went on -
The druggist , whom nothing whatever kept at Yonville , but who *thought* *himself* bound not to budge from it , sighed as he saw them go .
Then *addressing* *himself* to Emma , who was wearing a blue silk gown with four flounces -
The doctor was much afraid of missing the beginning , and , without having had time to swallow a plate of soup , they *presented* *themselves* at the doors of the theatre , which were still closed .
Another appeared ; they went away , and the hunters started afresh . She felt *herself* *transported* to the reading of her youth , into the midst of Walter Scott .
She *gave* *herself* up to the lullaby of the melodies , and felt all her being vibrate as if the violin bows were drawn over her nerves . She had not eyes enough to look at the costumes , the scenery , the actors , the painted trees that shook when anyone walked , and the velvet caps , cloaks , swords - all those imaginary things that floated amid the harmony as in the atmosphere of another world .
She had *ruined* *herself* for him .
Emma dreamed of her marriage day ; she *saw* *herself* at home again amid the corn in the little path as they walked to the church .
She , on the contrary , had been joyous , without seeing the abyss into which she was *throwing* *herself* .
With him , through all the kingdoms of Europe she would have travelled from capital to capital , sharing his fatigues and his pride , picking up the flowers thrown to him , *herself* *embroidering* his costumes .
But soon *recalling* *herself* to the necessities of the situation , with an effort she shook off the torpor of her memories , and began stammering a few hurried words .
He was standing behind her , leaning with his shoulder against the wall of the box ; now and again she felt *herself* *shuddering* beneath the hot breath from his nostrils falling upon her hair .
And changing his tactics at this unexpected opportunity that *presented* *itself* to his hopes , the young man sang the praises of Lagardy in the last number .
Charles explained once more that he could not *absent* *himself* longer , but that nothing prevented Emma -
One ought not to *accustom* *oneself* to impossible pleasures when there are a thousand demands upon one . "
As they talked they explained more and more fully the motives of their sadness , *working* *themselves* up in their progressive confidence .
Often I went out ; I went away . I *dragged* *myself* along the quays , seeking distraction amid the din of the crowd without being able to banish the heaviness that weighed upon me .
He started off in praise of virtue , duty , and silent immolation , *having* *himself* an incredible longing for self-sacrifice that he could not satisfy .
`` Because I loved you so ! '' And *congratulating* *himself* at having surmounted the difficulty , Leon watched her face out of the corner of his eyes .
No doubt Emma did not *herself* *know* , quite absorbed as she was by the charm of the seduction , and the necessity of *defending* *herself* from it ; and contemplating the young man with a moved look , she gently repulsed the timid caresses that his trembling hands attempted .
The next morning , at the open window , and humming on his balcony , Leon *himself* *varnished* his pumps with several coatings .
He seemed to him to be *conducting* *himself* in a monstrous fashion , to be robbing him in a sort , and almost committing sacrilege .
It was thus the druggist called a small room under the leads , full of the utensils and the goods of his trade . He often spent long hours there alone , labelling , decanting , and doing up again ; and he looked upon it not as a simple store , but as a veritable sanctuary , whence there afterwards issued , elaborated by his hands , all sorts of pills , boluses , infusions , lotions , and potions , that would bear far and wide his celebrity . No one in the world set foot there , and he respected it so , that he swept it himself . Finally , if the pharmacy , open to all comers , was the spot where he displayed his pride , the Capharnaum was the refuge where , egoistically *concentrating* *himself* , Homais delighted in the exercise of his predilections , so that Justin 's thoughtlessness seemed to him a monstrous piece of irreverence , and , redder than the currants , he repeated -
" Presently ! Do you know to what you *exposed* *yourself* ?
Often I am *horrified* *myself* when I think of my responsibility ; for the Government persecutes us , and the absurd legislation that rules us is a veritable Damocles ' sword over our heads . "
He would have quoted Chinese or Greenlandish had he known those two languages , for he was in one of those crises in which the whole soul shows indistinctly what it contains , like the ocean , which , in the storm , *opens* *itself* from the seaweeds on its shores down to the sands of its abysses .
Then he came straight to his pupil , and , *planting* *himself* in front of him with crossed arms -
However , he was growing calmer , and was now grumbling in a paternal tone whilst he *fanned* *himself* with his skull-cap .
At any rate , not till you are *man* *yourself* and your temperament is formed . "
Seeing her so taciturn , Charles imagined her much affected , and *forced* *himself* to say nothing , not to reawaken this sorrow which moved him .
`` Did you *enjoy* *yourself* yesterday ? '' he asked .
She had *bored* *herself* so prodigiously the last two days .
The doctor , of course , would do as he pleased ; he was not to *trouble* *himself* , especially just now , when he would have a lot of worry .
Then he came again to measure it ; he came again on other pretexts , always trying to *make* *himself* agreeable , useful , `` *enfeoffing* *himself* , '' as Homais would have said , and always dropping some hint to Emma about the power of attorney .
For my own part , I think that mothers *ought* *themselves* to instruct their children .
At last , when he had eaten his soup , put on his cloak , lighted his pipe , and grasped his whip , he calmly *installed* *himself* on his seat .
A giddiness seemed to her to *detach* *itself* from this mass of existence , and her heart swelled as if the hundred and twenty thousand souls that palpitated there had all at once sent into it the vapour of the passions she fancied theirs . Her love grew in the presence of this vastness , and expanded with tumult to the vague murmurings that rose towards her .
They were so completely lost in the possession of each other that they *thought* *themselves* in their own house , and that they would live there till death , like two spouses eternally young . They said `` our room , '' `` our carpet , '' she even said `` my slippers , '' a gift of Leon 's , a whim she had had .
So he *thought* *himself* the most fortunate of men and Emma was without uneasiness , when , one evening suddenly he said -
`` If I were in your place , '' he said , `` I should *clear* *myself* of my debts , and have money left over . ''
`` It really grieves me , on my word ! to see you *depriving* *yourself* all at once of such a big sum as that . ''
Instead of sending a reply she *came* *herself* ; and when Emma wanted to know whether he had got anything out of her , `` Yes , '' he replied ; `` but she wants to see the account . ''
I should be ashamed to *coddle* *myself* as you do !
As he was turning into the street , Emma *herself* *appeared* at the other end of it .
He *threw* *himself* upon her rather than embraced her , crying -
This was a sort of permission that she *gave* *herself* , so as to get perfect freedom in her escapades .
At last she ran to his office ; and , lost in all sorts of conjectures , accusing him of indifference , and *reproaching* *herself* for her weakness , she spent the afternoon , her face pressed against the window-panes .
Homais was *enjoying* *himself* .
Then , through cowardice , through stupidity , through that indefinable feeling that drags us into the most distasteful acts , he *allowed* *himself* to be led off to Bridoux ' , whom they found in his small yard , superintending three workmen , who panted as they turned the large wheel of a machine for making seltzer-water .
This failing to keep their rendezvous seemed to her an insult , and she tried to rake up other reasons to *separate* *herself* from him .
They gradually came to talking more frequently of matters outside their love , and in the letters that Emma wrote him she spoke of flowers , verses , the moon and the stars , naive resources of a waning passion striving to *keep* *itself* alive by all external aids .
She was constantly *promising* *herself* a profound felicity on her next journey . Then she confessed to herself that she felt nothing extraordinary .
She went on tiptoe , barefooted , to see once more that the door was closed , then , pale , serious , and , without speaking , with one movement , she *threw* *herself* upon his breast with a long shudder .
`` But I was *pressed* *myself* ; the knife was at my own throat . ''
He explained everything through her old nervous illness , and *reproaching* *himself* with having taken her infirmities for faults , accused himself of egotism , and longed to go and take her in his arms .
One day she drew six small silver-gilt spoons from her bag ( they were old Roualt 's wedding present ) , begging him to pawn them at once for her , and Leon obeyed , though the proceeding annoyed him . He was afraid of *compromising* *himself* .
In fact someone had sent his mother a long anonymous letter to warn her that he was `` *ruining* *himself* with a married woman , '' and the good lady at once conjuring up the eternal bugbear of families , the vague pernicious creature , the siren , the monster , who dwells fantastically in depths of love , wrote to Lawyer Dubocage , his employer , who behaved perfectly in the affair . He kept him for three quarters of an hour trying to open his eyes , to warn him of the abyss into which he was falling . Such an intrigue would damage him later on , when he set up for himself . He implored him to break with her , and , if he would not make this sacrifice in his own interest , to do it at least for his , Dubocage 's sake .
At last Leon swore he would not see Emma again , and he *reproached* *himself* with not having kept his word , considering all the worry and lectures this woman might still draw down upon him , without reckoning the jokes made by his companions as they sat round the stove in the morning . Besides , he was soon to be head clerk ; it was time to settle down . So he gave up his flute , exalted sentiments , and poetry ; for every bourgeois in the flush of his youth , were it but for a day , a moment , has *believed* *himself* capable of immense passions , of lofty enterprises . The most mediocre libertine has dreamed of sultanas ; every notary bears within him the debris of a poet .
On Mid-Lent she did not return to Yonville , but in the evening went to a masked ball . She wore velvet breeches , red stockings , a club wig , and three-cornered hat cocked on one side . She danced all night to the wild tones of the trombones ; people gathered round her , and in the morning she *found* *herself* on the steps of the theatre together with five or six masks , debardeuses * and sailors , Leon 's comrades , who were talking about having supper .
Then , reaching the `` Croix-Rouge , '' she *threw* *herself* on the bed in her little room on the second floor , where there were pictures of the `` Tour de Nesle . ''
She *presented* *herself* at his place with an offhand air .
She was stoical the next day when Maitre Hareng , the bailiff , with two assistants , *presented* *himself* at her house to draw up the inventory for the distraint .
An infernal boldness looked out from her burning eyes , and their lids drew close together with a lascivious and encouraging look , so that the young man felt *himself* *growing* weak beneath the mute will of this woman who was urging him to a crime .
She was so overwhelmed , so sad , that she had to lean against a wall to *keep* *herself* from falling .
Madame Homais was very fond of these small , heavy turban-shaped loaves , that are eaten in Lent with salt butter ; a last vestige of Gothic food that goes back , perhaps , to the time of the Crusades , and with which the robust Normans *gorged* *themselves* of yore , fancying they saw on the table , in the light of the yellow torches , between tankards of hippocras and huge boars ' heads , the heads of Saracens to be devoured .
Instead of getting drunk at the public , you 'd do better to *die* *yourself* . "
But the druggist said that he would *cure* *himself* with an antiphlogistic pomade of his own composition , and he gave his address - `` Monsieur Homais , near the market , pretty well known . ''
They might , either in the turf-peats of Grumesnil or building-ground at Havre , almost without risk , have ventured on some excellent speculations ; and he let her *consume* *herself* with rage at the thought of the fabulous sums that she would certainly have made .
He *dragged* *himself* towards her on his knees , regardless of his dressing-gown .
`` What a wretch ! what a scoundrel ! what an infamy ! '' she said to herself , as she fled with nervous steps beneath the aspens of the path . The disappointment of her failure increased the indignation of her outraged modesty ; it seemed to her that Providence pursued her implacably , and , *strengthening* *herself* in her pride , she had never felt so much esteem for herself nor so much contempt for others . A spirit of warfare transformed her . She would have liked to strike all men , to spit in their faces , to crush them , and she walked rapidly straight on , pale , quivering , maddened , searching the empty horizon with tear-dimmed eyes , and as it were rejoicing in the hate that was choking her .
She hurried off to tell Madame Caron , and the two ladies went up to the attic , and , hidden by some linen spread across props , *stationed* *themselves* comfortably for overlooking the whole of Binet 's room .
And she already *saw* *herself* at Lheureux 's spreading out her three bank-notes on his bureau .
So she set out towards La Huchette , not seeing that she was hastening to *offer* *herself* to that which but a while ago had so angered her , not in the least conscious of her prostitution .
She *asked* *herself* as she walked along , " What am I going to say ?
She collected her thoughts for one moment , and , *strengthening* *herself* by the feeling of present necessity , went in .
Then he began a long explanation of his conduct , *excusing* *himself* in vague terms , in default of being able to invent better .
She was betraying , *ruining* *herself* .
For you *love* *yourself* ; you live well .
`` I have n't got them , '' replied Rodolphe , with that perfect calm with which resigned rage *covers* *itself* as with a shield .
Madness was coming upon her ; she grew afraid , and managed to *recover* *herself* , in a confused way , it is true , for she did not in the least remember the cause of the terrible condition she was in , that is to say , the question of money .
She was *studying* *herself* curiously , to see if she were not suffering .
Her shoulders were shaken by a strong shuddering , and she was growing paler than the sheets in which her clenched fingers *buried* *themselves* .
He *threw* *himself* on his knees by her bed .
`` Bring me the child , '' she said , *raising* *herself* on her elbow .
At last , when Canivet came in , he *threw* *himself* into his arms .
He sent quickly to the `` Lion d 'Or '' for some pigeons ; to the butcher 's for all the cutlets that were to be had ; to Tuvache for cream ; and to Lestiboudois for eggs ; and the druggist *himself* *aided* in the preparations , while Madame Homais was saying as she pulled together the strings of her jacket -
`` But how did she *poison* *herself* ? ''
But suddenly *controlling* *himself* -
" I have even read that various persons have *found* *themselves* under toxicological symptoms , and , as it were , thunderstricken by black-pudding that had been subjected to a too vehement fumigation .
At last the three horses started ; and it was the general opinion that he had not *shown* *himself* at all obliging .
Emma , her chin sunken upon her breast , had her eyes inordinately wide open , and her poor hands wandered over the sheets with that hideous and soft movement of the dying , that seems as if they wanted already to *cover* *themselves* with the shroud .
Her chest soon began panting rapidly ; the whole of her tongue protruded from her mouth ; her eyes , as they rolled , grew paler , like the two globes of a lamp that is going out , so that one might have thought her already dead but for the fearful labouring of her ribs , shaken by violent breathing , as if the soul were struggling to *free* *itself* .
Emma *raised* *herself* like a galvanised corpse , her hair undone , her eyes fixed , staring .
But still , when he saw that she did not move , Charles *threw* *himself* upon her , crying -
`` *Restrain* *yourself* ! ''
Weaker than a child , Charles *let* *himself* be led downstairs into the sitting-room , and Monsieur Homais soon went home .
On the Place he was accosted by the blind man , who , having *dragged* *himself* as far as Yonville , in the hope of getting the antiphlogistic pomade , was asking every passer-by where the druggist lived .
`` Now , '' said the chemist , `` you *ought* *yourself* to fix the hour for the ceremony . ''
Homais , to *keep* *himself* in countenance , took up a water-bottle on the whatnot to water the geraniums .
He *shut* *himself* up in his consulting-room , took a pen , and after sobbing for some time , wrote -
He *threw* *himself* upon it and fell asleep .
He stood opposite her , the better to see her , and he *lost* *himself* in a contemplation so deep that it was no longer painful .
At last , *stiffening* *himself* against emotion , Homais gave two or three great cuts at random that left white patches amongst that beautiful black hair .
He was dizzy ; he heard voices round about him ; he *felt* *himself* going mad .
At Quincampoix , to *give* *himself* heart , he drank three cups of coffee one after the other .
The poor fellow tried to *show* *himself* brave , and repeated several times .
Yet he tried to *stir* *himself* to a feeling of devotion , to *throw* *himself* into the hope of a future life in which he should see her again .
At times he thought he felt nothing more , and he enjoyed this lull in his pain , whilst at the same time he *reproached* *himself* for being a wretch .
They *ranged* *themselves* all round ; and while the priest spoke , the red soil thrown up at the sides kept noiselessly slipping down at the corners .
He sent her kisses ; he *dragged* *himself* towards the grave , to engulf himself with her .
Rodolphe , who , to *distract* *himself* , had been rambling about the wood all day , was sleeping quietly in his chateau , and Leon , down yonder , always slept .
Money troubles soon began again , Monsieur Lheureux urging on anew his friend Vincart , and Charles *pledged* *himself* for exorbitant sums ; for he would never consent to let the smallest of the things that had belonged to HER be sold .
Felicite now wore Madame Bovary 's gowns ; not all , for he had kept some of them , and he went to look at them in her dressing-room , *locking* *himself* up there ; she was about her height , and often Charles , seeing her from behind , was seized with an illusion , and cried out -
The blind man , whom he had not been able to cure with the pomade , had gone back to the hill of Bois-Guillaume , where he told the travellers of the vain attempt of the druggist , to such an extent , that Homais when he went to town *hid* *himself* behind the curtains of the `` Hirondelle '' to avoid meeting him .
He *busied* *himself* with great questions : the social problem , moralisation of the poorer classes , pisciculture , caoutchouc , railways , etc . He even began to blush at being a bourgeois .
`` In short ! '' he cried , making a pirouette , `` if it were only for *distinguishing* *myself* at fires ! ''
He *sold* *himself* - in a word , *prostituted* *himself* .
Then they said `` he *shut* *himself* up to drink . ''
He *questioned* *himself* ; he sought to divine who could have been that soul in torment which had not been willing to quit this world without leaving this stigma of crime or unhappiness upon the brow of the ancient church .
Thousands of good , calm , bourgeois faces thronged the windows , the doors , the dormer windows , the roofs , gazing at the palace , gazing at the populace , and asking nothing more ; for many Parisians *content* *themselves* with the spectacle of the spectators , and a wall behind which something is going on becomes at once , for us , a very curious thing indeed .
The two extremities of this gigantic parallelogram were occupied , the one by the famous marble table , so long , so broad , and so thick that , as the ancient land rolls   in a style that would have given Gargantua an appetite   say , `` such a slice of marble as was never beheld in the world '' ; the other by the chapel where Louis XI. *had* *himself* sculptured on his knees before the Virgin , and whither he caused to be brought , without heeding the two gaps thus made in the row of royal statues , the statues of Charlemagne and of Saint Louis , two saints whom he supposed to be great in favor in heaven , as kings of France .
Among the rest there was a group of those merry imps , who , after smashing the glass in a window , had *seated* *themselves* hardily on the entablature , and from that point despatched their gaze and their railleries both within and without , upon the throng in the hall , and the throng upon the Place .
Then a great hurly  burly ensued ; a vast movement of feet , hands , and heads ; a general outbreak of coughs and handkerchiefs ; each one *arranged* *himself* , assumed his post , *raised* *himself* up , and *grouped* *himself* .
The crowd *hurled* *itself* towards them , and they already beheld the frail wooden railing , which separated them from it , giving way and bending before the pressure of the throng .
The author of the `` Cid '' could not have said `` Pierre Corneille '' with more pride . Our readers have been able to observe , that a certain amount of time must have already elapsed from the moment when Jupiter had retired beneath the tapestry to the instant when the author of the new morality had thus abruptly *revealed* *himself* to the innocent admiration of Gisquette and Linarde .
The music of high and low instruments immediately became audible from the interior of the stage ; the tapestry was raised ; four personages , in motley attire and painted faces , emerged from it , climbed the steep ladder of the theatre , and , arrived upon the upper platform , *arranged* *themselves* in a line before the public , whom they saluted with profound reverences ; then the symphony ceased .
A tattered mendicant , who could not collect any coins , lost as he was in the midst of the crowd , and who had not probably found sufficient indemnity in the pockets of his neighbors , had hit upon the idea of *perching* *himself* upon some conspicuous point , in order to attract looks and alms .
He had , accordingly , *hoisted* *himself* , during the first verses of the prologue , with the aid of the pillars of the reserve gallery , to the cornice which ran round the balustrade at its lower edge ; and there he had *seated* *himself* , soliciting the attention and the pity of the multitude , with his rags and a hideous sore which covered his right arm .
On recovering from his first stupefaction , he *bestirred* *himself* to shout , to the four personages on the stage , `` Go on ! What the devil !   go on ! ''   without even deigning to cast a glance of disdain upon the two interrupters .
A true eclectic , as it would be expressed nowadays , Gringoire was one of those firm and lofty , moderate and calm spirits , which always know how to *bear* *themselves* amid all circumstances ( ~ stare in dimidio rerum ~ ) , and who are full of reason and of liberal philosophy , while still setting store by cardinals .
Nevertheless , he was a fine man ; he led a joyous cardinal 's life , liked to *enliven* *himself* with the royal vintage of Challuau , did not hate Richarde la Garmoise and Thomasse la Saillarde , bestowed alms on pretty girls rather than on old women ,   and for all these reasons was very agreeable to the populace of Paris .
So he turned toward the door , and with the best grace in the world ( so well had he *trained* *himself* to it ) , when the usher announced , in a sonorous voice , `` Messieurs the Envoys of Monsieur the Duke of Austria . '' It is useless to add that the whole hall did the same .
While the pensioner of Ghent and his eminence were exchanging very low bows and a few words in voices still lower , a man of lofty stature , with a large face and broad shoulders , *presented* *himself* , in order to enter abreast with Guillaume Rym ; one would have pronounced him a bull  dog by the side of a fox .
The arrival of the illustrious guests had by no means caused him to relax his hold , and , while the prelates and ambassadors were *packing* *themselves* into the stalls   like genuine Flemish herrings   he *settled* *himself* at his ease , and boldly crossed his legs on the architrave .
Now , chance ordained that the master hosier of Ghent , with whom the people were already in lively sympathy , and upon whom all eyes were riveted   should come and *seat* *himself* in the front row of the gallery , directly above the mendicant ; and people were not a little amazed to see the Flemish ambassador , on concluding his inspection of the knave thus placed beneath his eyes , bestow a friendly tap on that ragged shoulder .
This semi  approbation sufficed for Gringoire , and , conducting his own affairs , he began to shout , *confounding* *himself* with the crowd as much as possible : `` Begin the mystery again ! begin again ! ''
But Gringoire had *multiplied* *himself* , and only shouted the more vigorously : `` Begin again ! begin again ! ''
Both parties were forced to *resign* *themselves* .
The four personages of the prologue were *bewailing* *themselves* in their mortal embarrassment , when Venus in person , ( ~ vera incessa patuit dea ~ ) *presented* *herself* to them , clad in a fine robe bearing the heraldic device of the ship of the city of Paris .
She had *come* *herself* to claim the dolphin promised to the most beautiful .
He had *hardened* *himself* against adversity .    `` Continue ! '' he had said for the third time , to his comedians , speaking machines ; then as he was marching with great strides in front of the marble table , a fancy seized him to go and appear in his turn at the aperture of the chapel , were it only for the pleasure of making a grimace at that ungrateful populace .   `` But no , that would not be worthy of us ; no , vengeance ! let us combat until the end , '' he repeated to himself ; " the power of poetry over people is great ; I will bring them back .
Gringoire was forced to *content* *himself* with this eulogy ; for a thunder of applause , mingled with a prodigious acclamation , cut their conversation short .
Master Coppenole *himself* *applauded* , and Clopin Trouillefou , who had been among the competitors ( and God knows what intensity of ugliness his visage could attain ) , confessed *himself* *conquered* : We will do the same .
Quasimodo *contented* *himself* with taking him by the girdle , and hurling him ten paces off amid the crowd ; all without uttering a word .
`` What a devil of a man ! '' said Robin Poussepain still all bruised with his fall . " He *shows* *himself* ; he 's a hunchback .
Then they made him *seat* *himself* on a motley litter .
Gringoire bore this new disaster heroically ; he *picked* *himself* up , and reached the water 's edge .
`` Oh ! '' said he , `` I would gladly *drown* *myself* , were the water not so cold ! ''
`` At least , '' he said to himself , " I shall there have a firebrand of joy wherewith to *warm* *myself* , and I can sup on some crumbs of the three great armorial bearings of royal sugar which have been erected on the public refreshment  stall of the city .
Just see if those boobies will *put* *themselves* out ! Move aside !
They are *warming* *themselves* , much pleasure may it give them !
And , *seating* *herself* , she gracefully presented her tambourine to the goat .
Djali *reared* *himself* on his hind legs , and began to bleat , marching along with so much dainty gravity , that the entire circle of spectators burst into a laugh at this parody of the interested devoutness of the captain of pistoliers .
The goat *seated* *himself* on his hind quarters , and began to bleat , waving his fore feet in so strange a manner , that , with the exception of the bad French , and worse Latin , Jacques Charmolue was there complete ,   gesture , accent , and attitude .
`` Will you *take* *yourself* off , you Egyptian grasshopper ? '' cried a sharp voice , which proceeded from the darkest corner of the Place .
No supper , no shelter ; he *saw* *himself* pressed on all sides by necessity , and he found necessity very crabbed .
Only joy *made* *itself* felt , only pride dominated .
He 'll *get* *himself* devoured ! "
The formidable Quasimodo had *hurled* *himself* from the litter , and the women turned aside their eyes in order not to see him tear the archdeacon asunder .
Quasimodo *placed* *himself* in front of the priest , set in play the muscles of his athletic fists , and glared upon the assailants with the snarl of an angry tiger .
Quasimodo then *constituted* *himself* the rearguard , and followed the archdeacon , walking backwards , squat , surly , monstrous , bristling , gathering up his limbs , licking his boar 's tusks , growling like a wild beast , and imparting to the crowd immense vibrations , with a look or a gesture .
There was in this voluntary abdication of his freewill , in this fancy *submitting* *itself* to another fancy , which suspects it not , a mixture of fantastic independence and blind obedience , something indescribable , intermediate between slavery and liberty , which pleased Gringoire ,   a spirit essentially compound , undecided , and complex , holding the extremities of all extremes , incessantly suspended between all human propensities , and neutralizing one by the other .
He was fond of *comparing* *himself* to Mahomet 's coffin , attracted in two different directions by two loadstones , and hesitating eternally between the heights and the depths , between the vault and the pavement , between fall and ascent , between zenith and nadir .
The gypsy gracefully *raised* *herself* upright upon the officer 's saddle , placed both hands upon the young man 's shoulders , and gazed fixedly at him for several seconds , as though enchanted with his good looks and with the aid which he had just rendered her .
`` Captain Phoebus de Chteaupers , at your service , my beauty ! '' replied the officer , *drawing* *himself* up .
Moreover , his hand was tolerably free ; he stopped up his nose and *resigned* *himself* .
Gringoire who was not quite dead yet , half *raised* *himself* .
There is my pallet burning . `` And *comparing* *himself* to the pilot who suffers shipwreck by night , '' ~ Salve ~ , `` he added piously , '' ~ salve , maris stella ~ ! "
And then , in proportion as he plunged deeper into the street , cripples in bowls , blind men and lame men , swarmed about him , and men with one arm , and with one eye , and the leprous with their sores , some emerging from little streets adjacent , some from the air  holes of cellars , howling , bellowing , yelping , all limping and halting , all *flinging* *themselves* towards the light , and humped up in the mire , like snails after a shower .
Reality made its way to the light around him , struck his eyes , struck his feet , and demolished , bit by bit , all that frightful poetry with which he had , at first , *believed* *himself* to be surrounded .
He was forced to perceive that he was not walking in the Styx , but in mud , that he was elbowed not by demons , but by thieves ; that it was not his soul which was in question , but his life ( since he lacked that precious conciliator , which *places* *itself* so effectually between the bandit and the honest man   a purse ) .
The spectacle which *presented* *itself* to his eyes , when his ragged escort finally deposited him at the end of his trip , was not fitted to bear him back to poetry , even to the poetry of hell .
*Justify* *yourself* ; announce your titles . "
Zounds ! *let* *yourself* be hung , and do n't kick up such a row over it ! "
Then he shouted shrilly : `` Silence ! '' and , as the cauldron and the frying  pan did not heed him , and continued their duet , he jumped down from his hogshead , gave a kick to the boiler , which rolled ten paces away bearing the child with it , a kick to the frying  pan , which upset in the fire with all its grease , and gravely remounted his throne , without *troubling* *himself* about the stifled tears of the child , or the grumbling of the old woman , whose supper was wasting away in a fine white flame .
Trouillefou made a sign , and the duke , the emperor , and the passed masters of pickpockets , and the isolated robbers , came and *ranged* *themselves* around him in a horseshoe , of which Gringoire , still roughly held by the body , formed the centre .
Here is a means of *extricating* *yourself* from your predicament for the moment .
`` Do you consent , '' resumed Clopin , `` to *enroll* *yourself* among the people of the knife ? ''
`` You *recognize* *yourself* as a member of the free bourgeoisie ? '' * added the King of Thunes .
Several thieves *detached* *themselves* from the circle , and returned a moment later .
`` What are they going to do ? '' Gringoire *asked* *himself* with some uneasiness .
The band of thieves applauded Clopin 's words , and *arranged* *themselves* in a circle round the gibbet , with a laugh so pitiless that Gringoire perceived that he amused them too much not to have everything to fear from them .
Perceiving that no respite , nor reprieve , nor subterfuge was possible , he bravely decided upon his course of action ; he wound his right foot round his left leg , *raised* *himself* on his left foot , and stretched out his arm : but at the moment when his hand touched the manikin , his body , which was now supported upon one leg only , wavered on the stool which had but three ; he made an involuntary effort to *support* *himself* by the manikin , lost his balance , and fell heavily to the ground , deafened by the fatal vibration of the thousand bells of the manikin , which , yielding to the impulse imparted by his hand , described first a rotary motion , and then swayed majestically between the two posts .
`` Now , '' resumed Clopin Trouillefou , `` as soon as I clap my hands , you , Andry the Red , will fling the stool to the ground with a blow of your knee ; you , Franois Chante  Prune , will cling to the feet of the rascal ; and you , Bellevigne , will *fling* *yourself* on his shoulders ; and all three at once , do you hear ? ''
`` Are you ready ? '' said Clopin Trouillefou to the three thieves , who *held* *themselves* in readiness to fall upon Gringoire .
The vagabonds , male and female , *ranged* *themselves* gently along her path , and their brutal faces beamed beneath her glance .
A few moments later our poet *found* *himself* in a tiny arched chamber , very cosy , very warm , seated at a table which appeared to ask nothing better than to make some loans from a larder hanging near by , having a good bed in prospect , and alone with a pretty girl .
He began seriously to *take* *himself* for a personage in a fairy tale ; he cast his eyes about him from time to time to time , as though to see if the chariot of fire , harnessed to two  winged chimeras , which alone could have so rapidly transported him from Tartarus to Paradise , were still there .
At last she came and *seated* *herself* near the table , and Gringoire was able to scrutinize her at his ease .
`` Can you ask me , adorable Esmeralda ? '' replied Gringoire , with so passionate an accent that he was *himself* *astonished* at it on hearing *himself* *speak* .
She bounded from one end of the tiny room to the other , stooped down , and *raised* *herself* again , with a little poniard in her hand , before Gringoire had even had time to see whence the poniard came ; proud and angry , with swelling lips and inflated nostrils , her cheeks as red as an api apple , * and her eyes darting lightnings .
At the same time , the white goat *placed* *itself* in front of her , and presented to Gringoire a hostile front , bristling with two pretty horns , gilded and very sharp .
She replied by a negative sign of the head , and her pensive glance *fixed* *itself* upon the vault of the ceiling .
Gringoire colored , and took the hint . It was evident that the young girl was alluding to the slight assistance which he had rendered her in the critical situation in which she had *found* *herself* two hours previously .
A fruit dealer gave me a plum here , a baker flung me a crust there ; in the evening I *got* *myself* taken up by the watch , who threw me into prison , and there I found a bundle of straw .
In the winter I *warmed* *myself* in the sun , under the porch of the Htel de Sens , and I thought it very ridiculous that the fire on Saint John 's Day was reserved for the dog days .
There was no piece of furniture adapted to sleeping purposes , except a tolerably long wooden coffer ; and its cover was carved , to boot ; which afforded Gringoire , when he *stretched* *himself* out upon it , a sensation somewhat similar to that which Micromgas would feel if he were to lie down on the Alps .
`` Come ! '' said he , *adjusting* *himself* as well as possible , " I must *resign* *myself* .
And , in the first place , to cite only a few leading examples , there certainly are few finer architectural pages than this faade , where , successively and at once , the three portals hollowed out in an arch ; the broidered and dentated cordon of the eight and twenty royal niches ; the immense central rose window , flanked by its two lateral windows , like a priest by his deacon and subdeacon ; the frail and lofty gallery of trefoil arcades , which supports a heavy platform above its fine , slender columns ; and lastly , the two black and massive towers with their slate penthouses , harmonious parts of a magnificent whole , superposed in five gigantic stories ;   *develop* *themselves* before the eye , in a mass and without confusion , with their innumerable details of statuary , carving , and sculpture , joined powerfully to the tranquil grandeur of the whole ; a vast symphony in stone , so to speak ; the colossal work of one man and one people , all together one and complex , like the Iliads and the Romanceros , whose sister it is ; prodigious product of the grouping together of all the forces of an epoch , where , upon each stone , one sees the fancy of the workman disciplined by the genius of the artist start forth in a hundred fashions ; a sort of human creation , in a word , powerful and fecund as the divine creation of which it seems to have stolen the double character ,   variety , eternity .
And if we ascend the cathedral , without mentioning a thousand barbarisms of every sort ,   what has become of that charming little bell tower , which rested upon the point of intersection of the cross  roofs , and which , no less frail and no less bold than its neighbor ( also destroyed ) , the spire of the Sainte  Chapelle , *buried* *itself* in the sky , farther forward than the towers , slender , pointed , sonorous , carved in open work .
One can distinguish on its ruins three sorts of lesions , all three of which cut into it at different depths ; first , time , which has insensibly notched its surface here and there , and gnawed it everywhere ; next , political and religious revolution , which , blind and wrathful by nature , have *flung* *themselves* tumultuously upon it , torn its rich garment of carving and sculpture , burst its rose windows , broken its necklace of arabesques and tiny figures , torn out its statues , sometimes because of their mitres , sometimes because of their crowns ; lastly , fashions , even more grotesque and foolish , which , since the anarchical and splendid deviations of the Renaissance , have followed each other in the necessary decadence of architecture .
It is the old oak *crowning* *itself* , and which , to heap the measure full , is stung , bitten , and gnawed by caterpillars .
The Saxon architect completed the erection of the first pillars of the nave , when the pointed arch , which dates from the Crusade , arrived and *placed* *itself* as a conqueror upon the large Romanesque capitals which should support only round arches .
There are , invariably , two naves , which intersect in a cross , and whose upper portion , rounded into an apse , forms the choir ; there are always the side aisles , for interior processions , for chapels ,   a sort of lateral walks or promenades where the principal nave *discharges* *itself* through the spaces between the pillars .
There they *plant* *themselves* squarely , *cut* *themselves* gardens from the fields , and take their ease .
In the sixteenth , it seems to retreat visibly , and to *bury* *itself* deeper and deeper in the old city , so thick had the new city already become outside of it .
But these are the principal masses which were then to be distinguished when the eye began to *accustom* *itself* to this tumult of edifices .
Thus the City first *presented* *itself* to the eye , with its stern to the east , and its prow to the west .
The ground of the University was hilly ; Mount Sainte  Genevive formed an enormous mound to the south ; and it was a sight to see from the summit of Notre  Dame how that throng of narrow and tortuous streets ( to  day the Latin Quarter ) , those bunches of houses which , spread out in every direction from the top of this eminence , *precipitated* *themselves* in disorder , and almost perpendicularly down its flanks , nearly to the water 's edge , having the air , some of falling , others of clambering up again , and all of holding to one another .
But that which attracted the eye most of all , and fixed it for a long time on that point , was the *abbey* *itself* .
It is certain that this monastery , which had a grand air , both as a church and as a seignory ; that abbatial palace , where the bishops of Paris *counted* *themselves* happy if they could pass the night ; that refectory , upon which the architect had bestowed the air , the beauty , and the rose window of a cathedral ; that elegant chapel of the Virgin ; that monumental dormitory ; those vast gardens ; that portcullis ; that drawbridge ; that envelope of battlements which notched to the eye the verdure of the surrounding meadows ; those courtyards , where gleamed men at arms , intermingled with golden copes ;   the whole grouped and clustered about three lofty spires , with round arches , well planted upon a Gothic apse , made a magnificent figure against the horizon .
Nevertheless , the remarkably pointed and lofty roof of the modern palace , bristling with carved eaves , covered with sheets of lead , where coiled a thousand fantastic arabesques of sparkling incrustations of gilded bronze , that roof , so curiously damascened , darted upwards gracefully from the midst of the brown ruins of the ancient edifice ; whose huge and ancient towers , rounded by age like casks , sinking together with old age , and *rending* *themselves* from top to bottom , resembled great bellies unbuttoned .
Finally , the fourth compartment , which *stretched* *itself* out in the agglomeration of the roofs on the right bank , and which occupied the western angle of the enclosure , and the banks of the river down stream , was a fresh cluster of palaces and Htels pressed close about the base of the Louvre .
Behind the Bastille there were twenty hovels clustered round the curious sculptures of the Croix  Faubin and the flying buttresses of the Abbey of Saint  Antoine des Champs ; then Popincourt , lost amid wheat fields ; then la Courtille , a merry village of wine  shops ; the hamlet of Saint  Laurent with its church whose bell tower , from afar , seemed to *add* *itself* to the pointed towers of the Porte Saint  Martin ; the Faubourg Saint  Denis , with the vast enclosure of Saint  Ladre ; beyond the Montmartre Gate , the Grange  Batelire , encircled with white walls ; behind it , with its chalky slopes , Montmartre , which had then almost as many churches as windmills , and which has kept only the windmills , for society no longer demands anything but bread for the body .
But this splendid moment lasted only for a short time ; the Renaissance was not impartial ; it did not *content* *itself* with building , it wished to destroy ; it is true that it required the room .
At the rate at which Paris is now proceeding , it will *renew* *itself* every fifty years .
Decretals digested , he *flung* *himself* upon medicine , on the liberal arts .
This catastrophe was a crisis in Claude 's existence . Orphaned , the eldest , head of the family at the age of nineteen , he *felt* *himself* rudely recalled from the reveries of school to the realities of this world .
He *threw* *himself* , therefore , into the love for his little Jehan with the passion of a character already profound , ardent , concentrated ; that poor frail creature , pretty , fair  haired , rosy , and curly ,   that orphan with another orphan for his only support , touched him to the bottom of his heart ; and grave thinker as he was , he set to meditating upon Jehan with an infinite compassion .
He resolved to *consecrate* *himself* entirely to a future for which he was responsible in the sight of God , and never to have any other wife , anyother child than the happiness and fortune of his brother .
Therefore , he *attached* *himself* more closely than ever to the clerical profession .
It was a sort of investment of good works , which he was effecting in the name of his young brother ; it was a stock of good works which he wished to amass in advance for him , in case the little rogue should some day *find* *himself* short of that coin , the only sort which is received at the toll  bar of paradise .
When , still a little fellow , he had *dragged* *himself* tortuously and by jerks beneath the shadows of its vaults , he seemed , with his human face and his bestial limbs , the natural reptile of that humid and sombre pavement , upon which the shadow of the Romanesque capitals cast so many strange forms .
It is thus that , little by little , developing always in sympathy with the cathedral , living there , sleeping there , hardly ever leaving it , subject every hour to the mysterious impress , he came to resemble it , he *incrusted* *himself* in it , so to speak , and became an integral part of it .
For , in order not to make others laugh , the very moment that he *found* *himself* to be deaf , he resolved upon a silence which he only broke when he was alone .
From his very first steps among men , he had *felt* *himself* , later on he had *seen* *himself* , spewed out , blasted , rejected .
Quasimodo *stationed* *himself* in front of this open throat ; he crouched and rose with the oscillations of the bell , breathed in this overwhelming breath , gazed by turns at the deep place , which swarmed with people , two hundred feet below him , and at that enormous , brazen tongue which came , second after second , to howl in his ear .
All of a sudden , the frenzy of the bell seized upon him ; his look became extraordinary ; he lay in wait for the great bell as it passed , as a spider lies in wait for a fly , and *flung* *himself* abruptly upon it , with might and main .
He was everywhere about it ; in fact , he *multiplied* *himself* on all points of the structure .
When the poor bellringer became deaf , there had been established between him and Claude Frollo , a language of signs , mysterious and understood by *themselves* *alone* .
Again , he had set in movement a band of scholars , who had *flung* *themselves* upon a wine  shop in classic fashion , quasi ~ classico excitati ~ , had then beaten the tavern  keeper `` with offensive cudgels , '' and joyously pillaged the tavern , even to smashing in the hogsheads of wine in the cellar .
Claude , saddened and discouraged in his human affections , by all this , had *flung* *himself* eagerly into the arms of learning , that sister which , at least does not laugh in your face , and which always pays you , though in money that is sometimes a little hollow , for the attention which you have paid to her .
Then he had penetrated further , lower , beneath all that finished , material , limited knowledge ; he had , perhaps , risked his soul , and had *seated* *himself* in the cavern at that mysterious table of the alchemists , of the astrologers , of the hermetics , of which Averros , Gillaume de Paris , and Nicolas Flamel hold the end in the Middle Ages ; and which extends in the East , by the light of the seven  branched candlestick , to Solomon , Pythagoras , and Zoroaster .
Furthermore , it is certain that the archdeacon had *established* *himself* in that one of the two towers which looks upon the Grve , just beside the frame for the bells , a very secret little cell , into which no one , not even the bishop , entered without his leave , it was said .
By profession as well as by character , he had always *held* *himself* aloof from women ; he seemed to hate them more than ever .
The archdeacon had just *seated* *himself* , by the light of a three  jetted copper lamp , before a vast coffer crammed with manuscripts .
`` Monsieur , '' returned the archdeacon , " if that be your motive , you would have done as well not to *put* *yourself* out of breath climbing my staircase .
`` Whose archdeacon I am ? '' Dom Claude *contented* *himself* with replying , with tranquil hauteur .
Nevertheless , if the desire possesses you of *putting* *yourself* under discipline at your age , and of deciphering the formidable alphabet of the sages , come to me ; it is well , I will make the effort .
We will *content* *ourselves* with the fragments of the book of Hermes which we have here .
When the memory of the first races *felt* *itself* overloaded , when the mass of reminiscences of the human race became so heavy and so confused that speech naked and flying , ran the risk of losing them on the way , men transcribed them on the soil in a manner which was at once the most visible , most durable , and most natural .
While Daedalus , who is force , measured ; while Orpheus , who is intelligence , sang ;   the pillar , which is a letter ; the arcade , which is a syllable ; the pyramid , which is a word ,   all set in movement at once by a law of geometry and by a law of poetry , *grouped* *themselves* , combined , amalgamated , descended , ascended , placed *themselves* *side* by side on the soil , *ranged* *themselves* in stories in the sky , until they had written under the dictation of the general idea of an epoch , those marvellous books which were also marvellous edifices : the Pagoda of Eklinga , the Rhamseion of Egypt , the Temple of Solomon .
The hieroglyph deserts the cathedral , and *betakes* *itself* to blazoning the donjon keep , in order to lend prestige to feudalism .
Thought was then free only in this manner ; hence it never *wrote* *itself* out completely except on the books called edifices .
Thought , under the form of edifice , could have *beheld* *itself* burned in the public square by the hands of the executioner , in its manuscript form , if it had been sufficiently imprudent to *risk* *itself* thus ; thought , as the door of a church , would have been a spectator of the punishment of thought as a book .
Having thus only this resource , masonry , in order to make its way to the light , *flung* *itself* upon it from all quarters .
All other arts obeyed , and *placed* *themselves* under the discipline of architecture .
There was nothing down to poor poetry ,   properly speaking , that which persisted in vegetating in manuscripts ,   which was not forced , in order to make something of itself , to come and *frame* *itself* in the edifice in the shape of a hymn or of prose ; the same part , after all , which the tragedies of AEschylus had played in the sacerdotal festivals of Greece ; Genesis , in the temple of Solomon .
In the Hindu , Egyptian , or Romanesque architecture , one feels the priest , nothing but the priest , whether he *calls* *himself* Brahmin , Magian , or Pope .
Human thought discovers a mode of *perpetuating* *itself* , not only more durable and more resisting than architecture , but still more simple and easy .
Now it *converts* *itself* into a flock of birds , *scatters* *itself* to the four winds , and occupies all points of air and space at once .
And when one observes that this mode of expression is not only the most conservative , but also the most simple , the most convenient , the most practicable for all ; when one reflects that it does not drag after it bulky baggage , and does not set in motion a heavy apparatus ; when one compares thought forced , in order to *transform* *itself* into an edifice , to put in motion four or five other arts and tons of gold , a whole mountain of stones , a whole forest of timber  work , a whole nation of workmen ; when one compares it to the thought which becomes a book , and for which a little paper , a little ink , and a pen suffice ,   how can one be surprised that human intelligence should have quitted architecture for printing ?
So they *emancipate* *themselves* , break the yoke of the architect , and *take* *themselves* off , each one in its own direction .
Thought *emancipates* *itself* in all directions at the same time as the arts .
With Michael Angelo dead , what does this miserable architecture , which *survived* *itself* in the state of a spectre , do ?
Now , we ask , which of the three arts has really represented human thought for the last three centuries ? which translates it ? which expresses not only its literary and scholastic vagaries , but its vast , profound , universal movement ? which constantly *superposes* *itself* , without a break , without a gap , upon the human race , which walks a monster with a thousand legs ?   Architecture or printing ?
Let the reader now imagine what an investment of funds it would require to rewrite the architectural book ; to cause thousands of edifices to swarm once more upon the soil ; to return to those epochs when the throng of monuments was such , according to the statement of an eye witness , `` that one would have said that the world in *shaking* *itself* , had cast off its old garments in order to *cover* *itself* with a white vesture of churches . '' ~ Erat enim ut si mundus , ipse excutiendo semet , rejecta vetustate , candida ecclesiarum vestem indueret ~ .
He had clung to it , he had *incorporated* *himself* with it , he had so *identified* *himself* with it that he had escaped that fury for change which possessed Louis XI . , a tormenting and industrious king , whose policy it was to maintain the elasticity of his power by frequent appointments and revocations .
Add to this the pleasure of *displaying* *himself* in rides about the city , and of making his fine military costume , which you may still admire sculptured on his tomb in the abbey of Valmont in Normandy , and his morion , all embossed at Montlhry , stand out a contrast against the parti  colored red and tawny robes of the aldermen and police .
He could not have *told* *himself* .
He 's eating the plaintiff , he 's eating the suits , he eats , he chews , he crams , he *fills* *himself* .
Thanks to this precaution , which he always was careful to take at the moment when on the point of beginning an examination , he knew beforehand the names , titles , and misdeeds of the accused , made cut and dried responses to questions foreseen , and succeeded in *extricating* *himself* from all the windings of the interrogation without allowing his deafness to be too apparent .
Hence he took great care to conceal his deafness from the eyes of all , and he generally succeeded so well that he had reached the point of *deluding* *himself* , which is , by the way , easier than is supposed .
*Explain* *yourself* upon all these points .  Clerk , have you written down what the prisoner has said thus far ? "
" So this is as much as to say , perverse and thieving knave that you are , that you *permit* *yourself* to be lacking in respect towards the Auditor of the Chtelet , to the magistrate committed to the popular police of Paris , charged with searching out crimes , delinquencies , and evil conduct ; with controlling all trades , and interdicting monopoly ; with maintaining the pavements ; with debarring the hucksters of chickens , poultry , and water  fowl ; of superintending the measuring of fagots and other sorts of wood ; of purging the city of mud , and the air of contagious maladies ; in a word , with attending continually to public affairs , without wages or hope of salary !
And he *seated* *himself* , utterly breathless , wiping away the great drops of sweat which fell from his brow and drenched , like tears , the parchments spread out before him .
This was too much ; the provost could no longer *restrain* *himself* .
However , at the moment when Master Florian Barbedienne was reading the sentence in his turn , before signing it , the clerk felt *himself* *moved* with pity for the poor wretch of a prisoner , and , in the hope of obtaining some mitigation of the penalty , he approached as near the auditor 's ear as possible , and said , pointing to Quasimodo , `` That man is deaf . ''
And , meanwhile , four mounted sergeants , who have just *posted* *themselves* at the four sides of the pillory , have already concentrated around themselves a goodly proportion of the populace scattered on the Place , who *condemn* *themselves* to immobility and fatigue in the hope of a small execution .
This little cell had been celebrated in Paris for nearly three centuries , ever since Madame Rolande de la Tour  Roland , in mourning for her father who died in the Crusades , had caused it to be hollowed out in the wall of her own house , in order to *immure* *herself* there forever , keeping of all her palace only this lodging whose door was walled up , and whose window stood open , winter and summer , giving all the rest to the poor and to God .
At her death , at the moment when she was passing to the other sepulchre , she had bequeathed this one in perpetuity to afflicted women , mothers , widows , or maidens , who should wish to pray much for others or for themselves , and who should desire to *inter* *themselves* alive in a great grief or a great penance .
The majority had *contented* *themselves* with holding the memory of Rolande sacred , and converting her rags into relics .
To *confine* *ourselves* to the cell in the Tour  Roland , we must say that it had never lacked recluses .
Some serious motive , no doubt , prevented his biting it ( the cake ) , for he *contented* *himself* with gazing tenderly at it .
Gallantry claimed her once more ; men came to see la Chantefleurie ; she found customers again for her merchandise , and out of all these horrors she made baby clothes , caps and bibs , bodices with shoulder  straps of lace , and tiny bonnets of satin , without even thinking of *buying* *herself* another coverlet .   Master Eustache , I have already told you not to eat that cake .   It is certain that little Agnes , that was the child 's name , a baptismal name , for it was a long time since la Chantefleurie had had any surname   it is certain that that little one was more swathed in ribbons and embroideries than a dauphiness of Dauphiny !
The wise people said to the foolish : `` Do n't go there ! '' and then *went* *themselves* on the sly .
It was the monstrous child of some gypsy woman , who had *given* *herself* to the devil .
La Chantefleurie *flung* *herself* upon the little shoe , all that remained to her of all that she loved .
She had clung to it as to *life* *itself* .
Monseigneur the archbishop *interested* *himself* in the child of Egypt , exorcised it , blessed it , removed the devil carefully from its body , and sent it to Paris , to be exposed on the wooden bed at Notre  Dame , as a foundling . "
It was , in fact , a melancholy spectacle which *presented* *itself* to the eyes of the two women , as they gazed through the grating of the Rat  Hole , neither stirring nor breathing .
What shall we do to rouse her ? `` Eustache , who , up to that moment had been diverted by a little carriage drawn by a large dog , which had just passed , suddenly perceived that his three conductresses were gazing at something through the window , and , curiosity taking possession of him in his turn , he climbed upon a stone post , *elevated* *himself* on tiptoe , and applied his fat , red face to the opening , shouting , '' Mother , let me see too ! "
Every limb was trembling , her voice quivered , her eyes flashed , she had *raised* *herself* upon her knees ; suddenly she extended her thin , white hand towards the child , who was regarding her with a look of astonishment . `` Take away that child ! '' she cried .
A moment later , however , she moved , and they beheld her *drag* *herself* , on her knees and elbows , to the corner where the little shoe was .
`` Can she have *killed* *herself* ? '' said Gervaise , venturing to pass her head through the air  hole . " Sister !
It *amused* *itself* with watching the pillory , a very simple sort of monument , composed of a cube of masonry about six feet high and hollow in the interior .
They were forced to *content* *themselves* with those four stretches of rubble work , backed with sandstone , and a wretched stone gibbet , meagre and bare , on one side .
He had *allowed* *himself* to be led , pushed , carried , lifted , bound , and bound again .
During this gayety , a man in the livery of the city , short of stature and robust of mien , mounted the platform and *placed* *himself* near the victim .
Here , as in the Grand Hall , the women *rendered* *themselves* particularly prominent .
But as soon as the mule was near enough to the pillory to allow of its rider recognizing the victim , the priest dropped his eyes , beat a hasty retreat , spurred on rigorously , as though in haste to *rid* *himself* of humiliating appeals , and not at all desirous of being saluted and recognized by a poor fellow in such a predicament .
It is certain that a vague and indistinct desire to please the handsome officer animated them all , that his splendid uniform was the target of all their coquetries , and that from the moment he *presented* *himself* , there existed among them a secret , suppressed rivalry , which they hardly acknowledged even to themselves , but which broke forth , none the less , every instant , in their gestures and remarks .
Each one *felt* *herself* , in some sort , wounded in her beauty .
`` My dear , '' continued Fleur  de  Lys , with decided sharpness , `` You will *get* *yourself* taken up by the sumptuary police for your gilded girdle . ''
Every day , an hour before sunset , the archdeacon ascended the staircase to the tower , and *shut* *himself* up in this cell , where he sometimes passed whole nights .
The crowd was swarming around her ; from time to time , a man accoutred in red and yellow made them form into a circle , and then returned , *seated* *himself* on a chair a few paces from the dancer , and took the goat 's head on his knees .
This garment *presented* *itself* , I took it , and I left my ancient black smock , which , for a hermetic like myself , was far from being hermetically closed .
What would you have ? it is an eclipse . Apollo *himself* *tended* the flocks of Admetus . "
All at once his deep  set eye assumed so sagacious and penetrating an expression , that Gringoire *felt* *himself* , so to speak , searched to the bottom of the soul by that glance .
She *believed* *herself* to be hated , in all the city , by but two persons , of whom she often spoke in terror : the sacked nun of the Tour  Roland , a villanous recluse who cherished some secret grudge against these gypsies , and who cursed the poor dancer every time that the latter passed before her window ; and a priest , who never met her without casting at her looks and words which frightened her .
Every morning , he set out from the lair of the thieves , generally with the gypsy ; he helped her make her collections of targes * and little blanks * * in the squares ; each evening he returned to the same roof with her , allowed her to *bolt* *herself* into her little chamber , and slept the sleep ofthe just . A very sweet existence , taking it all in all , he said , and well adapted to revery .
On arriving in the lofty bell chamber , Quasimodo gazed for some time at the six bells and shook his head sadly , as though groaning over some foreign element which had *interposed* *itself* in his heart between them and him .
It chanced that upon a fine morning in this same month of March , I think it was on Saturday the 29th , Saint Eustache 's day , our young friend the student , Jehan Frollo du Moulin , perceived , as he was *dressing* *himself* , that his breeches , which contained his purse , gave out no metallic ring . `` Poor purse , '' he said , drawing it from his fob , " what ! not the smallest parisis ! how cruelly the dice , beer  pots , and Venus have depleted thee !
He *dressed* *himself* sadly .
The Petit  Pont traversed , the Rue Neuve  Sainte  Genevive crossed , Jehan de Molendino *found* *himself* in front of Notre  Dame .
Something very similar to Faust 's cell *presented* *itself* to Jehan 's view , when he ventured his head through the half  open door .
`` Hence , '' continued the priest , " one wretched thought is sufficient to render a man weak and *beside* *himself* !
The archdeacon returned and *seated* *himself* in his armchair , and placed his head on both his hands , as a sick man does , whose head is heavy and burning .
This was a formidable exordium . Jehan *braced* *himself* for a rough encounter .
A malicious page *amused* *himself* by splashing the scholars , by making his horse gallop through the mire ! "
*Hide* *yourself* quickly under the furnace , and do not breathe . "
The scholar *concealed* *himself* ; just then a happy idea occurred to him .
The first point which struck the eye of our Jehan ( who , as the reader will readily surmise , had *ensconced* *himself* in his nook in such a manner as to enable him to see and hear everything at his good pleasure ) was the perfect sadness of the garments and the visage of this new  corner .
He had made the latter a sign to *seat* *himself* on a stool near the door , and , after several moments of a silence which appeared to be a continuation of a preceding meditation , he said to him in a rather patronizing way , `` Good day , Master Jacques . ''
`` I will tell you that hereafter , '' he stammered , in a voice that was barely articulate ; then he resumed with an effort , `` *Busy* *yourself* with Marc Cenaine . ''
At that moment , a bewildered fly which was seeking the March sun , *flung* *itself* through the net and became entangled there .
Thou wert flying towards learning , light , the sun . Thou hadst no other care than to reach the open air , the full daylight of eternal truth ; but in *precipitating* *thyself* towards the dazzling window which opens upon the other world ,   upon the world of brightness , intelligence , and science   blind fly ! senseless , learned man ! thou hast not perceived that subtle spider 's web , stretched by destiny betwixt the light and thee   thou hast flung *thyself* *headlong* into it , and now thou art struggling with head broken and mangled wings between the iron antennae of fate !
How many systems vainly *fling* *themselves* buzzing against that eternal pane ! "
`` It is a cat of mine , '' said the archdeacon , quickly , `` who is *regaling* *herself* under there with a mouse , ''
He stamped his foot when he *found* *himself* on the ground once again . `` Oh ! '' said he , " good and honorable pavement of Paris , cursed staircase , fit to put the angels of Jacob 's ladder out of breath !
What was I thinking of to *thrust* *myself* into that stone gimlet which pierces the sky ; all for the sake of eating bearded cheese , and looking at the bell  towers of Paris through a hole in the wall ! "
Dom Claude started , *interrupted* *himself* and , to the great amazement of Charmolue , turned round and beheld his brother Jehan accosting a tall officer at the door of the Gondelaurier mansion .
`` Horns and *thunder* *yourself* ! '' replied the student . `` Come now , fair captain , whence comes this overflow of fine words ? ''
He heard them singing at the top of their lungs the ancient refrain ,   The children of the Petits Carreaux *let* *themselves* be hung like calves .
Only at intervals did some little ragged boy *raise* *himself* on tiptoe as far as the ledge , and hurl into the drinking  shop , that ancient , jeering hoot , with which drunken men were then pursued : `` Aux Houls , saouls , saouls , saouls ! ''
This mantle he had just purchased of the old  clothes man , in the vicinity of the `` Eve 's Apple , '' no doubt to *protect* *himself* from the cold of the March evening , possibly also , to conceal his costume .
The man in the mantle went and *stationed* *himself* on the watch under a porch on the other side of the street .
`` Captain Phoebus de Chteaupers , thou liest ! '' Any one who could have beheld at that moment the captain 's inflamed countenance , his leap backwards , so violent that he *disengaged* *himself* from the grip which held him , the proud air with which he clapped his hand on his swordhilt , and , in the presence of this wrath the gloomy immobility of the man in the cloak ,   any one who could have beheld this would have been frightened .
So I will *betake* *myself* to my rendezvous ; it is for seven o 'clock , as you know . " Here Phoebus scratched his ear .
When he *recovered* *himself* , Phoebus and Esmeralda were alone seated on the wooden coffer beside the lamp which made these two youthful figures and a miserable pallet at the end of the attic stand out plainly before the archdeacon 's eyes .
I love my captain . " Phoebus again profited by the opportunity to impress upon her beautiful bent neck a kiss which made the young girl *straighten* *herself* up as scarlet as a poppy .
Phoebus returned and *seated* *himself* beside her , but much closer than before .
It is I. Look at me ; it is the little one whom thou wilt surely not repulse , who comes , who *comes* *herself* to seek thee .
*Gringoire* *himself* was not disinclined to regard this as altogether alarming and probable .
Suddenly it caught sight of the gypsy girl , and leaping over the table and the head of a clerk , in two bounds it was at her knees ; then it rolled gracefully on its mistress 's feet , soliciting a word or a caress ; but the accused remained motionless , and poor Djali *himself* *obtained* not a glance .
`` He is *destroying* *himself* ! '' he cried aloud ; `` You see well that he does not know what he is doing . ''
A counsellor having remarked that the gentlemen were fatigued , and that it would be a long time to wait until the torture was at an end , the president replied that a magistrate mustknow how to *sacrifice* *himself* to his duty .
`` What an annoying and vexatious hussy , '' said an aged judge , `` to *get* *herself* put to the question when one has not supped ! ''
Pray take the trouble to *seat* *yourself* on this bed .
The unfortunate girl *felt* *herself* so utterly abandoned by God and men , that her head fell upon her breast like an inert thing which has no power in itself .
`` Take that off ! '' she cried angrily ; and *drawing* *herself* up , with her hair all dishevelled : `` Mercy ! '' She darted from the bed to *fling* *herself* at the feet of the king 's procurator , but her leg was fast in the heavy block of oak and iron , and she sank down upon the boot , more crushed than a bee with a lump of lead on its wing .
And she fell back upon the leather bed , dying , doubled up , *allowing* *herself* to hang suspended from the strap buckled round her waist .
She had *dragged* *herself* to her place .
When Charmolue had *installed* *himself* in a magisterial manner in his own , he *seated* *himself* , then rose and said , without exhibiting too much self  complacency at his success ,   `` The accused has confessed all . ''
All at once , in the middle of a fine period , he *interrupted* *himself* , and his glance , ordinarily so gentle and even stupid , became menacing .
So saying , he pointed to the little goat , who , on seeing Charmolue gesticulating , had , in point of fact , thought it appropriate to do the same , and had *seated* *himself* on his haunches , reproducing to the best of his ability , with his forepaws and his bearded head the pathetic pantomine of the king 's procurator in the ecclesiastical court .
He put on his cap again and *seated* *himself* .
She had a recollection of a sentence of death pronounced somewhere , against some one , then of having been *herself* *carried* away , and of waking up in darkness and silence , chilled to the heart .
She had *dragged* *herself* along on her hands . Then iron rings that cut her ankles , and chains had rattled .
Then she had *seated* *herself* on that straw and , sometimes , for the sake of changing her attitude , on the last stone step in her dungeon .
Yes , I was happy , at least I *believed* *myself* to be so .
In a few moments , I felt the gross things of earth flee far away , and I *found* *myself* once more calm , quieted , and serene , in the presence of the tranquil radiance of eternal truth .
Surprised , intoxicated , charmed , I *allowed* *myself* to gaze upon thee .
" Already half fascinated , I tried to cling fast to something and *hold* *myself* back from falling .
I *drew* *myself* up ; I fled ; but alas ! something within me had fallen never to rise again , something had come upon me from which I could not flee . "
" Unable to *rid* *myself* of it , since I heard your song humming ever in my head , beheld your feet dancing always on my breviary , felt even at night , in my dreams , your form in contact with my own , I desired to see you again , to touch you , to know who you were , to see whether I should really find you like the ideal image which I had retained of you , to shatter my dream , perchance , with reality .
Then   how *stop* *myself* on that slope of hell ?   then I no longer belonged to myself .
But every evil thought is inexorable , and insists on becoming a deed ; but where I *believed* *myself* to be all powerful , fate was more powerful than I. Alas ! it is fate which has seized you and delivered you to the terrible wheels of the machine which I had constructed doubly . Listen .
You *think* *yourself* unhappy ; alas ! alas ! you know not what unhappiness is .
The priest *dragged* *himself* towards her on his knees .
Oh ! *save* *yourself* ! spare me ! "
The young girl *flung* *herself* upon him like a raging tigress , and pushed him upon the steps of the staircase with supernatural force .
Nothing shall unite us ! not *hell* *itself* !
She smiles upon it , she kisses it , she talks to it ; she *asks* *herself* whether there can actually be a foot so tiny ; and if the child be absent , the pretty shoe suffices to place the sweet and fragile creature before her eyes .
She was somewhat aroused by it , knotted her hair upon her ears in order to *deafen* *herself* , and resumed her contemplation , on her knees , of the inanimate object which she had adored for fifteen years .
Oh ! I will writhe on the earth , I will break the stones with my forehead , and I will *damn* *myself* , and I will curse you , Lord , if you keep my child from me ! you see plainly that my arms are all bitten , Lord !
The unhappy woman *flung* *herself* upon that shoe ; her consolation and her despair for so many years , and her vitals were rent with sobs as on the first day ; because , for a mother who has lost her child , it is always the first day .
Thistime , on the contrary , she drew *herself* *upright* with a start , and listened eagerly .
`` They are going to hang a gypsy to  day . '' With the abrupt leap of that spider which we have seen *fling* *itself* upon a fly at the trembling of its web , she rushed to her air  hole , which opened as the reader knows , on the Place de Grve .
A ladder had , in fact , been raised up against the permanent gibbet , and the hangman 's assistant was *busying* *himself* with adjusting the chains which had been rusted by the rain .
But youth had gained the upper hand ; and , as frequently happens , in spite of prognostications and diagnoses , nature had *amused* *herself* by saving the sick man under the physician 's very nose .
Hence , one fine morning , *feeling* *himself* better , he had left his golden spurs with the leech as payment , and had slipped away .
Justice , at that epoch , *troubled* *itself* very little about the clearness and definiteness of a criminal suit .
Superstitious , and not given to devoutness , like every soldier who is only a soldier , when he came to *question* *himself* about this adventure , he did not feel assured as to the goat , as to the singular fashion in which he had met La Esmeralda , as to the no less strange manner in which she had allowed him to divine her love , as to her character as a gypsy , and lastly , as to the surly monk .
Fashionable society of that day hardly knew the name of the victim who passed by at the corner of the street , and it was the populace at the most who *regaled* *themselves* with this coarse fare .
The noble *damsel* *herself* was more charming than ever .
Here Phoebus , whose imagination was endowed with but mediocre power of creation , began to *find* *himself* in a quandary as to a means of *extricating* *himself* for his prowess .
The escort *ranged* *themselves* in line on both sides .
They untied her hands , made her alight , accompanied by her goat , which had also been unbound , and which bleated with joy at *finding* *itself* free : and they made her walk barefoot on the hard pavement to the foot of the steps leading to the door .
She only recovered life and force when she beheld the priest make a sign to her guards to withdraw , and *himself* *advance* alone towards her .
`` Phoebus ! '' she cried wildly , `` can it be you believe it ? '' A monstrous thought had just *presented* *itself* to her .
He was handsome ; he , that orphan , that foundling , that outcast , he *felt* *himself* august and strong , he gazed in the face of that society from which he was banished , and in which he had so powerfully intervened , of that human justice from which he had wrenched its prey , of all those tigers whose jaws were forced to remain empty , of those policemen , those judges , those executioners , of all that force of the king which he , the meanest of creatures , had just broken , with the force of God .
Finally , he made his appearance for the third time upon the summit of the tower where hung the great bell ; from that point he seemed to be showing to the entire city the girl whom he had saved , and his voice of thunder , that voice which was so rarely heard , and which he never *heard* *himself* , repeated thrice with frenzy , even to the clouds : " Sanctuary !
He continued his flight as long as he could see , when he turned round , the turreted enclosure of the University , and the rare houses of the suburb ; but , when , at length , a rise of ground had completely concealed from him that odious Paris , when he could *believe* *himself* to be a hundred leagues distant from it , in the fields , in the desert , he halted , and it seemed to him that he breathed more freely .
He stirred up in the depths of his heart all his hatred , all his malevolence ; and , with the cold glance of a physician who examines a patient , he recognized the fact that this malevolence was nothing but vitiated love ; that love , that source of every virtue in man , turned to horrible things in the heart of a priest , and that a man constituted like himself , in *making* *himself* a priest , *made* *himself* a demon .
There was another moment when , while laughing diabolically at himself , he represented to *himself* *la* Esmeralda as he had seen her on that first day , lively , careless , joyous , gayly attired , dancing , winged , harmonious , and la Esmeralda of the last day , in her scanty shift , with a rope about her neck , mounting slowly with her bare feet , the angular ladder of the gallows ; he figured to himself this double picture in such a manner .that he gave vent to a terrible cry .
Sometimes he flung *himself* *face* downward on the , earth , and tore up the young blades of wheat with his nails .
Towards the hour of sunset , he *examined* *himself* again , and *found* *himself* nearly mad .
He *believed* *himself* to be far away from Paris ; on taking his bearings , he perceived that he had only circled the enclosure of the University .
When he heard the brisk challenge of the men  at  arms of the abbey , around the crenelated , circumscribing wall of Saint  Germain , he turned aside , took a path which *presented* *itself* between the abbey and the lazar  house of the bourg , and at the expiration of a few minutes *found* *himself* on the verge of the Pr  aux  Clercs .
Claude , in the state of hallucination in which he *found* *himself* , believed that he saw , that he saw with his actual eyes , the bell tower of hell ; the thousand lights scattered over the whole height of the terrible tower seemed to him so many porches of the immense interior furnace ; the voices and noises which escaped from it seemed so many shrieks , so many death groans .
After a few strides he *found* *himself* on the Pont Saint  Michel .
Dom Claude had barely time to *fling* *himself* on the ground in order that he might not be met , stared in the face and recognized by his brother .
The crescent of the moon , in her flight upward from the horizon , had paused at the moment , on the summit of the light hand tower , and seemed to have *perched* *itself* , like a luminous bird , on the edge of the balustrade , cut out in black trefoils .
He *flung* *himself* eagerly upon the holy book in the hope of finding some consolation , or some encouragement there .
On reading these gloomy words , he felt that which a blind man feels when he *feels* *himself* pricked by the staff which he has picked up .
He felt so many monstrous vapors pass and *discharge* *themselves* in his brain , that it seemed to him that his head had become one of the chimneys of hell .
All at once , he felt a freshness on his face , and *found* *himself* at the door of the highest gallery .
When she had passed on , he began to descend the staircase again , with the slowness which he had observed in the spectre , *believing* *himself* to be a spectre too , haggard , with hair on end , his extinguished lamp still in his hand ; and as he descended the spiral steps , he distinctly heard in his ear a voice laughing and repeating ,  
She dared not look at him , and she *surrendered* *herself* to her fate .
She saw that she was in Notre  Dame ; she remembered having been torn from the hands of the executioner ; that Phoebus was alive , that Phoebus loved her no longer ; and as these two ideas , one of which shed so much bitterness over the other , *presented* *themselves* simultaneously to the poor condemned girl ; she turned to Quasimodo , who was standing in front of her , and who terrified her ; she said to him ,   `` Why have you saved me ? ''
She made haste to *dress* *herself* .
She *found* *herself* alone once more , meditating upon the singular words of this almost monstrous being , and struck by the sound of his voice , which was so hoarse yet so gentle .
Stay , I have *placed* *myself* behind the wall .
When I *compare* *myself* to you , I feel a very great pity for myself , poor unhappy monster that I am !
An unreasonable explanation , but she *contented* *herself* with it , because she needed to believe that Phoebus still loved her , and loved her alone .
She took care to *dress* *herself* in the morning in the corner of her cell for fear some inhabitants of the neighboring attics might see her through the window .
She often *reproached* *herself* for not feeling a gratitude which should close her eyes , but decidedly , she could not *accustom* *herself* to the poor bellringer .
On another occasion he *presented* *himself* at the door of the cell ( which he never entered ) at the moment when la Esmeralda was singing an old Spanish ballad , the words of which she did not understand , but which had lingered in her ear because the gypsy women had lulled her to sleep with it when she was a little child .
By degrees , however , her terror disappeared , and she *yielded* *herself* wholly to the slow and melancholy air which she was singing . He remained on his knees with hands clasped , as in prayer , attentive , hardly breathing , his gaze riveted upon the gypsy 's brilliant eyes .
He had *placed* *himself* in that position in order to spare the young girl , as far as possible , the displeasure of seeing him .
The young man and the young girl , so far as our deaf man could judge , without hearing a single one of their words , appeared to *abandon* *themselves* to a very tender tte  a  tte .
He made a motion to *fling* *himself* on the captain .
Then he *drew* *himself* up stiffly and said ,   `` Oh ! how happy you are to have some one who loves you ! ''
Moreover , Quasimodo did not *deceive* *himself* on this point .
She *troubled* *herself* very little about it .
He had *reconciled* *himself* to la Esmeralda 's death .
When he heard this news , he *shut* *himself* in his cell in the cloister .
From that window , situated in the cloister , he could see la Esmeralda 's chamber . He often *saw* *herself* with her goat , sometimes with Quasimodo .
He *asked* *himself* what motive could have impelled Quasimodo to save her .
A moment later she felt a touch along her body which made her shudder so that she *straightened* *herself* up in a sitting posture , wide awake and furious .
Almost at the same instant he *felt* *himself* raised by a vigorous arm .
He *flung* *himself* on the arm which held the knife , crying : `` Quasimodo ! '' He forgot , at that moment of distress , that Quasimodo was deaf .
As soon as Pierre Gringoire had seen how this whole affair was turning , and that there would decidedly be the rope , hanging , and other disagreeable things for the principal personages in this comedy , he had not cared to *identify* *himself* with the matter further .
The outcasts with whom he had remained , reflecting that , after all , it was the best company in Paris ,   the outcasts had continued to *interest* *themselves* in behalf of the gypsy .
He also *occupied* *himself* with annotating the fine work of Baudry  le  Rouge , Bishop of Noyon and Tournay , De Cupa Petrarum , which had given him a violent passion for architecture , an inclination which had replaced in his heart his passion for hermeticism , of which it was , moreover , only a natural corollary , since there is an intimate relation between hermeticism and masonry .
`` And who the devil , '' resumed the poet , " has *amused* *himself* with soliciting a decree of reintegration ?
`` I ask nothing better , Dom Claude ; but what if I *entangle* *myself* in some villanous affair ? ''
I do not see why I should *get* *myself* hanged in some one else 's place . "
Jehan , *allow* *yourself* to be punished at the discretion of the master .
The very children were *arming* *themselves* , and there were even cripples in bowls who , in armor and cuirass , made their way between the legs of the drinkers , like great beetles .
`` Be quick ! make haste , *arm* *yourselves* ! we set out on the march in an hour ! '' said Clopin Trouillefou to his thieves .
Have you seen him make *himself* *breathless* on the big bell on a grand Pentecost festival ! ~ Corne du Pre ~ ! it is very fine !
My mother wanted to make an officer of me ; my father , a sub  deacon ; my aunt , a councillor of inquests ; my grandmother , prothonotary to the king ; my great aunt , a treasurer of the short robe ,   and I have *made* *myself* an outcast .
Meanwhile , the vagabonds continued to *arm* *themselves* and whisper at the other end of the dram  shop .
As he *threw* *himself* back on the bosom of the wench beside him , he exclaimed ,  
Comrade ! you have the air of a merchant of tennis  balls ; and you come and *sit* *yourself* beside me !
At the most , he gazed uneasily after Dom Claude when the latter ascended the staircase of the tower ; but the archdeacon had abstained from *presenting* *himself* again before the gypsy 's eyes .
It is probable that this singular procession , which seemed so desirous of *concealing* *itself* under profound darkness , maintained a silence no less profound .
Then his fears returned to him , the idea of an attempt against the gypsy *presented* *itself* once more to his mind .
No boat , no issue !   There was but one thing to be done ; to *allow* *himself* to be killed on the threshold of Notre  Dame , to resist at least until succor arrived , if it should arrive , and not to trouble la Esmeralda 's sleep .
Clopin Trouillefou had *placed* *himself* at the apex with the Duke of Egypt , our friend Jehan , and the most daring of the scavengers .
They *betook* *themselves* to the principal door of the church , ascended the steps , and were soon to be seen squatting under the arch , working at the door with pincers and levers ; a throng of vagabonds followed them to help or look on .
" Throat of God ! are the canons *defending* *themselves* ?
The windows were immediately closed , and the poor bourgeois , who had hardly had time to cast a frightened glance on this scene of gleams and tumult , returned , perspiring with fear to their wives , *asking* *themselves* whether the witches ' sabbath was now being held in the parvis of Notre  Dame , or whether there was an assault of Burgundians , as in ' 64 . Then the husbands thought of theft ; the wives , of rape ; and all trembled .
Evidently , the bishop was *defending* *himself* , and they only battered the door with the more rage , in spite of the stones which cracked skulls right and left .
He had run up and down along the gallery for several minutes like a madman , surveying from above , the compact mass of vagabonds ready to *hurl* *itself* on the church , demanding the safety of the gypsy from the devil or from God .
Thus , as soon as they began to batter the grand door , the shower of rough blocks of stone began to fall , and it seemed to them that the *church* *itself* was being demolished over their heads .
Independently of the projectiles which he had piled upon the balustrade , he had collected a heap of stones on the *platform* *itself* .
All at once , at the moment when they were *grouping* *themselves* round the ram for a last effort , each one holding his breath and stiffening his muscles in order to communicate all his force to the decisive blow , a howl more frightful still than that which had burst forth and expired beneath the beam , rose among them .
`` Churches have been known to *defend* *themselves* thus all by themselves , '' he remarked with a sigh .
At the sight of this line of cuirassed backs , undulating as they rose through the gloom , one would have pronounced it a serpent with steel scales , which was *raising* *itself* erect in front of the church .
He *found* *himself* in the gallery with the formidable bellringer , alone , separated from his companions by a vertical wall eighty feet high .
Jehan had then *concealed* *himself* behind a stone king , not daring to breathe , and fixing upon the monstrous hunchback a frightened gaze , like the man , who , when courting the wife of the guardian of a menagerie , went one evening to a love rendezvous , mistook the wall which he was to climb , and suddenly found *himself* *face* to face with a white bear .
Jehan *prepared* *himself* for a rough shock , but the deaf man remained motionless ; only he had turned towards the scholar and was looking at him .
When the scholar beheld *himself* *disarmed* , stripped , weak , and naked in those terrible hands , he made no attempt to speak to the deaf man , but began to laugh audaciously in his face , and to sing with his intrepid heedlessness of a child of sixteen , the then popular ditty : 
He felt *himself* *lost* amid all this grandeur .
During the king 's absence , several despatches had been placed on his table , and he broke the *seals* *himself* .
At the moment when he finished it , the door opened and gave passage to a new personage , who *precipitated* *himself* into the chamber , crying in affright ,  
He *controlled* *himself* and said with tranquil severity ,  
He rubbed his hands , he laughed with that inward mirth which makes the countenance beam ; he was unable to dissimulate his joy , although he endeavored at moments to *compose* *himself* .
He *corrected* *himself* . `` What is the bailiff 's feudal jurisdiction ? ''
This time he did not *correct* *himself* .
Here he *interrupted* *himself* abruptly , bit his lips as though to take back his thought which had already half escaped , bent his piercing eyes in turn on each of the five persons who surrounded him , and suddenly grasping his hat with both hands and staring full at it , he said to it : `` Oh ! I would burn you if you knew what there was in my head . ''
`` How do you *permit* *yourself* , knave , to go and besiege our friend , monsieur the bailiff of the palace , and what have you to say concerning this popular agitation ? ''
He perceived from the king 's cold and indifferent mien that there was no other resource than something very pathetic , and he *flung* *himself* at the feet of Louis XI . , exclaiming , with gestures of despair :  
I am not the man to *fling* *myself* into those clouds which break out into seditious clamor .
So saying , the unhappy Gringoire kissed the king 's slippers , and Guillaume Rym said to Coppenole in a low tone : " He doth well to *drag* *himself* on the earth .
And without *troubling* *himself* about the Jupiter of Crete , the hosier replied with a heavy smile , and his eyes fixed on Gringoire : " Oh ! that 's it exactly !
The king 's good humor since the revolt against the bailiff had been announced to him , *made* *itself* apparent in every way .
In November , ' 73 , by letters given to Gergeole , we instituted you keeper of the Wood of Vincennes , in the place of Gilbert Acle , equerry ; in ' 75 , gruyer * of the forest of Rouvray  lez  Saint  Cloud , in the place of Jacques le Maire ; in ' 78 , we graciously settled on you , by letters patent sealed doubly with green wax , an income of ten livres parisis , for you and your wife , on the Place of the Merchants , situated at the School Saint  Germain ; in ' 79 , we made you gruyer of the forest of Senart , in place of that poor Jehan Daiz ; then captain of the Chteau of Loches ; then governor of Saint  Quentin ; then captain of the bridge of Meulan , of which you *cause* *yourself* to be called comte .
But Advoyer Scharnachtal *hurled* *himself* on the handsome duke with his battle  club and his people , and when the glittering Burgundian army came in contact with these peasants in bull hides , it flew in pieces like a pane of glass at the blow of a pebble .
Louis XI. returned and *seated* *himself* , saying , with a smile ,   `` Ah ! here they have only got as far as the bailiffs . '' At that instant Olivier le Daim returned .
`` Against you , sire ? ' The aged king rose erect and straight as a young man ,   '' *Explain* *yourself* , Olivier !
Ah ! messieurs , louts of Paris , do you *fling* *yourselves* thus against the crown of France , the sanctity of Notre  Dame , and the peace of this commonwealth !
Here , as though seized with a sudden idea , he *flung* *himself* on his knees before his chair , took off his hat , placed it on the seat , and gazing devoutly at one of the leaden amulets which loaded it down ,
The brave deaf man , assailed on all sides , had lost , if not all courage , at least all hope of saving , not *himself* *(* he was not thinking of himself ) , but the gypsy .
They *defended* *themselves* like desperate men .
Caught on the flank , by the Rue Saint  Pierre  aux  Boeufs , and in the rear through the Rue du Parvis , driven to bay against Notre  Dame , which they still assailed and Quasimodo defended , at the same time besiegers and besieged , they were in the singular situation in which Comte Henri Harcourt , ~ Taurinum obsessor idem et obsessus ~ , as his epitaph says , *found* *himself* later on , at the famous siege of Turin , in 1640 , between Prince Thomas of Savoy , whom he was besieging , and the Marquis de Leganez , who was blockading him .
The king 's cavaliers , in whose midst Phoebus de Chteaupers *bore* *himself* valiantly , gave no quarter , and the slash of the sword disposed of those who escaped the thrust of the lance .
Men , women , children , *hurled* *themselves* on the cruppers and the breasts of the horses , and hung there like cats , with teeth , finger nails and toe nails .
But little by little the first vapors of terror had been dissipated ; from the constantly increasing noise , and from many other signs of reality , she felt *herself* *besieged* not by spectres , but by human beings .
No sooner had he entered than it *rubbed* *itself* gently against his knees , covering the poet with caresses and with white hairs , for it was shedding its hair .
She was obliged to *content* *herself* with this explanation .
She *allowed* *herself* to be led away .
The man was the last to step in . Then he cut the boat 's moorings , pushed it from the shore with a long boat  hook , and , seizing two oars , *seated* *himself* in the bow , rowing with all his might towards midstream .
He took a position in the stern ; and the young girl , whom the stranger inspired with an indefinable uneasiness , *seated* *herself* close to the poet .
But the man in black finally *recovered* *himself* , seized the oars once more and began to row against the current .
Thus she remained for a moment , stunned , watching the water flow past ; when she gradually returned to her senses , she found *herself* *alone* on the wharf with the unknown .
The poor gypsy shivered when she beheld *herself* *alone* with this man .
She had no more resistance left in her , she *allowed* *herself* to be dragged along , running while he walked .
She *tore* *herself* from his hands and fell at the foot of the gibbet , embracing that funereal support , then she half turned her beautiful head , and looked at the priest over her shoulder .
Above all things , do not speak to me of the officer !   I would *cast* *myself* at your knees , I would kiss not your feet , but the earth which is under your feet ; I would sob like a child , I would tear from my breast not words , but my very heart and vitals , to tell you that I love you ;   all would be useless , all !   And yet you have nothing in your heart but what is tender and merciful .
He *flung* *himself* on his knees to receive with adoration the word , possibly a tender one , which was on the point of issuing from her lips .
She *thought* *herself* victorious , and continued ,  
The young girl felt *herself* *seized* suddenly by the elbow .
Panting with terror , she tried to *disengage* *herself* .
The young girl passed her arm through the opening ; the recluse *threw* *herself* on that hand , pressed her lips to it and there remained , buried in that kiss , giving no other sign of life than a sob which heaved her breast from time to time .
The gypsy *threw* *herself* with anguish into the arms of the sacked nun .
*Hide* *yourself* in this corner .
The mother rose quickly and went to *post* *herself* before her window , in order to stop it up .
She had flung the poor gypsy , half dead , into the corner of the cellar , and had *placed* *herself* once more at the window with both hands resting on the angle of the sill like two claws .
Five or six of the provost 's men *armed* *themselves* with picks and crowbars , and Tristan *betook* *himself* , in company with them , towards the window .
The recluse had gone and *seated* *herself* by her daughter , covering her with her body , in front of her , with staring eyes , listening to the poor child , who did not stir , but who kept murmuring in a low voice , these words only , " Phoebus !
She *threw* *herself* upon it , she tried to hold it back ; she scratched the stone with her nails , but the massive block , set in movement by six men , escaped her and glided gently to the ground along the iron levers .
The mother offered no resistance , only she *dragged* *herself* towards her daughter and *threw* *herself* bodily upon her .
Then she *shook* *herself* and shrieked in a loud and heartrending voice : " No ! no !
Without uttering a cry , she raised *herself* *erect* with a terrible expression ; then she *flung* *herself* upon the hand of the executioner , like a beast on its prey , and bit it .
Quasimodo , left alone in that vast Notre  Dame , so besieged and tumultuous but a short time before , once more *betook* *himself* to the cell where the gypsy had slept for so many weeks under his guardianship .
All at once , he crushed his torch under his foot , and , without uttering a word , without giving vent to a sigh , he *flung* *himself* at full speed , head foremost against the wall , and fell fainting on the floor .
When he recovered his senses , he *threw* *himself* on the bed and rolling about , he kissed frantically the place where the young girl had slept and which was still warm ; he remained there for several moments asmotionless as though he were about to expire ; then he rose , dripping with perspiration , panting , mad , and began to beat his head against the wall with the frightful regularity of the clapper of his bells , and the resolution of a man determined to *kill* *himself* .
At length he fell a second time , exhausted ; he *dragged* *himself* on his knees outside the cell , and crouched down facing the door , in an attitude of astonishment .
The bellringer retreated several paces behind the archdeacon , and suddenly *hurling* *himself* upon him with fury , with his huge hands he pushed him by the back over into the abyss over which Dom Claude was leaning .
It was on this retreating angle that miserable archdeacon *exhausted* *himself* .
There he hung , embracing the gutter , hardly breathing , no longer stirring , making no longer any other movements than that mechanical convulsion of the stomach , which one experiences in dreams when one *fancies* *himself* falling .
In the Parvis there were several groups of curious good people , who were tranquilly seeking to divine who the madman could be who was *amusing* *himself* in so strange a manner .
He *stiffened* *himself* upon the spout , pushed against the wall with both his knees , clung to a crevice in the stones with his hands , and succeeded in climbing back with one foot , perhaps ; but this effort made the leaden beak on which he rested bend abruptly .
`` I want neither to stay here nor to be spoken to by you until you 've *introduced* *yourself* . '' `` I meant it for your own good , '' said the stranger and opened the door , this time without being asked .
She was showing an inquisitiveness that really made it seem like she was going senile . `` I want to see Mrs. Grubach ... , '' said K. , making a movement as if *tearing* *himself* away from the two men - even though they were standing well away from him - and wanted to go .
K. *found* *himself* , without intending it , in a mute dialogue with Franz , but then slapped his hand down on his papers and said , `` Here are my identity documents . ''
`` It 's probably exists only in your heads , '' said K. , he wanted , in some way , to insinuate his way into the thoughts of the policemen , to re-shape those thoughts to his benefit or to *make* *himself* at home there .
K. stopped talking with them ; do I , he thought to himself , do I really have to carry on getting tangled up with the chattering of base functionaries like this ? - and they *admit* *themselves* that they are of the lowest position .
If you take our advice , you wo n't *tire* *yourself* out thinking about things to no purpose , you need to *pull* *yourself* together as there 's a lot that 's going to required of you .
He *threw* *himself* down on his bed , and from the dressing table he took the nice apple that he had put there the previous evening for his breakfast .
It puzzled K. , at least it puzzled him looking at it from the policemen 's point of view , that they had made him go into the room and left him alone there , where he had ten different ways of *killing* *himself* .
At the same time , though , he *asked* *himself* , this time looking at it from his own point of view , what reason he could have to do so .
It would have been so pointless to *kill* *himself* that , even if he had wanted to , the pointlessness would have made him unable .
They could watch now , if they wanted , and see how he went over to the cupboard in the wall where he kept a bottle of good schnapps , how he first emptied a glass of it in place of his breakfast and how he then took a second glassful in order to *give* *himself* courage , the last one just as a precaution for the unlikely chance it would be needed .
`` Well that 's alright by me if it makes things go any faster , '' said K. He opened the *wardrobe* *himself* , spent a long time searching through all the clothes , and chose his best black suit which had a short jacket that had greatly surprised those who knew him , then he also pulled out a fresh shirt and began , carefully , to get dressed .
He secretly *told* *himself* that he had succeeded in speeding things up by letting the policemen forget to make him have a bath .
And the three of them did immediately retreat a few steps , the old pair even *found* *themselves* behind the man who then concealed them with the breadth of his body and seemed , going by the movements of his mouth , to be saying something incomprehensible into the distance .
Kaminer got to the hat and K. , as he often had to do at the bank , forcibly *reminded* *himself* that the grin was not deliberate , that he in fact was n't able to grin deliberately .
Kaminer ran to the corner to summon it , and the two others were making obvious efforts to keep K. diverted when Kullich pointed to the doorway of the house on the other side of the street where the large man with the blonde goatee beard appeared and , a little embarrassed at first at *letting* *himself* be seen in his full height , stepped back to the wall and leant against it .
K. was cross with Kullich for pointing out this man whom he had already *seen* *himself* , in fact whom he had been expecting .
This showed that K. was not very attentive , and he resolved to *watch* *himself* more carefully in this respect .
Nonetheless , he gave it no thought as he *twisted* *himself* round and leant over onto the rear shelf of the car to catch sight of the supervisor and the policemen if he could .
In particular , there was nothing to fear from the three bank officials , they had *immersed* *themselves* back into their paperwork and there was no alteration to be seen in them .
If I had got up as soon as I was awake without *letting* *myself* get confused because Anna was n't there , if I 'd got up and paid no regard to anyone who might have been in my way and come straight to you , if I 'd done something like having my breakfast in the kitchen as an exception , asked you to bring my clothes from my room , in short , if I had behaved sensibly then nothing more would have happened , everything that was waiting to happen would have been stifled .
In the bank , for example , I am well prepared , nothing of this sort could possibly happen to me there , I have my own assistant there , there are telephones for internal and external calls in front of me on the desk , I continually receive visits from people , representatives , officials , but besides that , and most importantly , I 'm always occupied with my work , that 's to say I 'm always alert , it would even be a pleasure for me to find *myself* *faced* with something of that sort .
`` That 's how young people are ! '' said Mrs. Grubach in to *excuse* *herself* .
`` It is odd , '' said Miss Brstner , `` that I 'm forced to forbid you to do something that you ought to have *forbidden* *yourself* to do , namely to come into my room when I 'm not here . ''
`` What 's too vague ? '' asked K. Then he *remembered* *himself* and asked , `` Would you like me to show you what it was like ? '' He wanted to move in some way but did not want to leave .
Ah yes , I 'm *forgetting* *myself* , the most important person of all , so I 'm standing here in front of the table. the supervisor is sitting extremely comfortably with his legs crossed and his arm hanging over the backrest here like some layabout .
K. was too engrossed in his role and slowly called out , `` Josef K. ! . '' It was not as loud as he had threatened , but nonetheless , once he had suddenly called it out , the cry seemed gradually to *spread* *itself* all round the room .
He had hardly *pulled* *himself* together when he jumped over to Miss Brstner and took her hand .
But when he reached the door he came to a halt as if he had n't expected to find a door there , Miss Brstner made use of that moment to *get* *herself* free , open the door , slip out into the hallway and gently say to K. from there , " Now , come along , please .
He would be given the number of the building where he was to *present* *himself* , which was in a street in a suburb well away from the city centre which K. had never been to before .
He was only speaking at the side of the telephone receiver while he waited for his connection , but in giving this invitation the deputy director was *humbling* *himself* .
K. *forced* *himself* to answer , but his thoughts were mainly about that Sunday , how it would be best to get there for nine o 'clock in the morning as that was the time that courts always start work on weekdays .
All of them seemed to be looking at him , surprised at seeing their superior running ; it was a kind of pride that made K. want to go on foot , this was his affair and the idea of any help from strangers , however slight , was repulsive to him , he also wanted to avoid asking for anyone 's help because that would initiate them into the affair even if only slightly . And after all , he had no wish at all to *humiliate* *himself* before the committee by being too punctual .
It was usually a woman who opened the door , heard the enquiry and turned to somebody in the room who would *raise* *himself* from the bed .
There were many who thought it must be very important for K. to find Lanz the joiner and thought long about it , naming a joiner who was not called Lanz or giving a name that had some vague similarity with Lanz , or they asked neighbours or accompanied K. to a door a long way away where they thought someone of that sort might live in the back part of the building or where someone would be who could advise K. better than they *could* *themselves* .
He passed through between two men who were talking beside the door - one of them held both hands far out in front of *himself* *making* the movements of counting out money , the other looked him closely in the eyes - and someone took him by the hand . It was a small , red-faced youth .
K. *let* *himself* be led by him , and it turned out that there was - surprisingly in a densely packed crowd of people moving to and fro - a narrow passage which may have been the division between two factions ; this idea was reinforced by the fact that in the first few rows to the left and the right of him there was hardly any face looking in his direction , he saw nothing but the backs of people directing their speech and their movements only towards members of their own side .
Many of them had brought pillows that they had put between their heads and the ceiling so that they would not *hurt* *themselves* pressed against it .
K. had decided he would do more watching than talking , so he did not *defend* *himself* for supposedly having come late , and simply said , `` Well maybe I have arrived late , I 'm here now . '' There followed loud applause , once more from the right hand side of the hall .
This reply was followed by laughter among the right hand faction down in the hall , it was so hearty that K. could n't *stop* *himself* joining in with it .
The people *supported* *themselves* with their hands on their knees and shook as if suffering a serious attack of coughing .
The judge had become quite cross but seemed to have no power over those below him in the hall , he tried to reduce what harm had been done in the gallery and jumped up threatening them , his eyebrows , until then hardly remarkable , *pushed* *themselves* up and became big , black and bushy over his eyes .
In fact he had done more than that and brought three junior employees from the bank where I work into the lady 's room ; they had *made* *themselves* busy interfering with some photographs that belonged to the lady and causing a mess .
K. could only see that a man had pulled her into a corner by the door and was *pressing* *himself* against her .
`` So , '' called out K , throwing his arms in the air as if this sudden realisation needed more room , " all of you are working for this organisation , I see now that you are all the very bunch of cheats and liars I 've just been speaking about , you 've all *pressed* *yourselves* in here in order to listen in and snoop on me , you gave the impression of having formed into factions , one of you even applauded me to test me out , and you wanted to learn how to trap an innocent man !
Well , I hope you have n't come here for nothing , I hope you 've either had some fun from someone who expected you to defend his innocence or else - let go of me or I 'll hit you , `` shouted K. to a quivery old man who had *pressed* *himself* especially close to him - '' or else that you 've actually learned something .
`` I merely wanted to draw your attention , '' said the judge , `` to something you seem not yet to be aware of : today , you have *robbed* *yourself* of the advantages that a hearing of this sort always gives to someone who is under arrest . ''
" Could you really do that without *placing* *yourself* in danger ?
So that 's what all this is about , thought K. , she 's *offering* *herself* to me , she 's as degenerate as everything else around here , she 's had enough of the court officials , which is understandable I suppose , and so she approaches any stranger and makes compliments about his eyes .
And what 's more , I expect they have already *noticed* *themselves* , or even if they have n't , this affair is really not so important to me as they think .
She suddenly *interrupted* *herself* and lay her hand on K. 's as if she wanted to calm him down , and whispered , `` Be quiet , Berthold is watching us . ''
In the doorway to the courtroom stood a young man , he was short , his legs were not quite straight , and he continually moved his finger round in a short , thin , red beard with which he hoped to *make* *himself* look dignified .
The student briefly looked away from the woman to glance at K. over his shoulder but did *allow* *himself* to be disturbed , in fact he even *pressed* *himself* close to the woman and put his arms around her .
What a position it was that K. *found* *himself* in , compared with the judge sitting up in the attic ! K. , at the bank , had a big office with an ante-room , and had an enormous window through which he could look down at the activity in the square .
`` Does your wife , then , not share some of the responsibility ? '' asked K. He had to *force* *himself* as he asked this question , as he , too , felt so jealous now .
It was her who *attached* *herself* to him .
In the meantime , the man whom K. had first approached had *pulled* *himself* together and even answered him with a smile .
K. did n't *concern* *himself* long with the guard or these people , especially as he saw a turning off the corridor , about half way along it on the right hand side , where there was no door to stop him going that way .
K. had still not looked round at anything at all in the room where he *found* *himself* , and it was only when one of the many wooden doors all around him opened that he noticed it .
The young woman smiled too , but lightly tapped the man 's arm with the tips of her fingers as if he had *allowed* *himself* too much fun with K.
K. just did not feel like contradicting him .. The girl 's intention may have been good , perhaps she was under instructions to distract him or to give him the chance to *collect* *himself* , but the attempt had not worked .
He did not quite reject the idea that he should see a doctor the next time he had the chance , but whatever he did - and this was something on which he could *advise* *himself* - he wanted to spend all Sunday mornings in future better than he had spent this one .
" I kept *asking* *myself* why it was that Mr. K. took such an interest in Miss Brstner .
He *contented* *himself* with merely drinking his coffee and letting Mrs. Grubach feel that she was superfluous .
She would have *come* *herself* , but she 's feeling a little unwell today .
Moreover , it was only yesterday , and only very briefly , that she made it clear to me that such a meeting could be of no benefit for yourself either , she feels that it can only have been a matter of chance that such an idea came to you , and that even without any explanations from her , you will very soon come to *realise* *yourself* , if you have not done so already , the futility of your idea .
One evening , a few days later , K. was walking along one of the corridors that separated his office from the main stairway - he was nearly the last one to leave for home that evening , there remained only a couple of workers in the light of a single bulb in the dispatch department - when he heard a sigh from behind a door which he *had* *himself* never opened but which he had always thought just led into a junk room . He stood in amazement and listened again to establish whether he might not be mistaken .
`` Do n't listen to him , '' said Willem , *interrupting* *himself* only to quickly bring his hand to his mouth when it had received a stroke of the cane , " we 're only being punished because you made a complaint against us .
Both of us , me especially , we 'd proved our worth as good police officers over a long period - you 've got to *admit* *yourself* that as far as official work was concerned we did the job well - things looked good for us , we had prospects , it 's quite certain that we would 've been made whip-men too , like this one , only he had the luck not to have anyone make a complaint about him , as you really do n't get many complaints like that .
`` Do n't shout like that ! , '' called out K. , unable to *prevent* *himself* , and , as he looked anxiously in the direction from which the servitor would come , he gave Franz a shove , not hard , but hard enough for him to fall down unconscious , clawing at the ground with his hands by reflex ; he still did not avoid being hit ; the rod still found him on the floor ; the tip of the rod swang regularly up and down while he rolled to and fro under its blows .
If that had been his intention then it would almost have been easier , K. would have taken his own clothes off and *offered* *himself* to the whip-man in the policemen 's place .
He was no longer in any position to help anyone , and the servitors would soon be back ; he did , though , *promise* *himself* that he would raise the matter again with somebody and see that , as far as it was in his power , those who really were guilty , the high officials whom nobody had so far dared point out to him , received their due punishment .
`` What 's this that I 've been hearing , Josef ? '' cried K. 's uncle when they were alone , as he sat on the table shoving various papers under himself without looking at them to *make* *himself* more comfortable .
`` Uncle Karl , '' said K. , *wrenching* *himself* back from his daydreaming , `` I really do n't know what it is you want of me . ''
He would have liked to have been of some help to the chief *clerk* *himself* , as the chief clerk was a gentleman , good and honest , but he did not know what it was he could do and merely hoped there would be some influential gentlemen who would take his side .
`` Josef , '' called his uncle trying to *disentangle* *himself* from him so that he could stop walking , but K. did not let go , " you 've completely changed , you used to be so astute , are you losing it now ?
Josef , *pull* *yourself* together .
K. *himself* *looked* on calmly , he was not even disappointed at finding the lawyer unwell , he had been able to do nothing to oppose the enthusiasm his uncle had developed for the matter , he was glad that this enthusiasm had now been distracted without his having to do anything about it .
Fortunately , though , behind the girl , the invalid *raised* *himself* up , K. 's uncle made an ugly face as if swallowing something disgusting and then , somewhat calmer , said , " We have naturally not lost our senses , not yet ; if what I am asking for were not possible I would not be asking for it .
And he *twisted* *himself* round as if wanting to go into no more negotiations but *giving* *himself* a little more time to think .
He *interrupted* *himself* , whispered , `` I bet you she 's listening ! '' and sprang over to the door .
But in a tone that was much more committed he went on , " As far as your nephew 's affairs are concerned , this will be an extremely difficult undertaking and I 'd *count* *myself* lucky if my strength lasted out long enough for it ; I 'm greatly afraid it wo n't do , but anyway I do n't want to leave anything untried ; if I do n't last out you can always get somebody else .
To be honest , this matters interests me too much , and I ca n't *bring* *myself* to give up the chance of taking some part in it .
`` But you work in the High Court , not that court in the attic , '' he had wanted to say but could not *bring* *himself* to actually utter it .
`` I 'm afraid I 'll only be able to stay a few minutes more , '' smiled the office director as he *spread* *himself* out in the armchair and looked at the clock .
He had hardly stepped into the hallway , finding his bearings in the darkness with his hand still firmly holding the door , when another small hand , much smaller than K. 's own , *placed* *itself* on his and gently shut the door .
But despite that , he *had* *himself* made to look bigger in the picture as he 's madly vain , just like everyone round here .
`` Just an examining judge once again , '' said K. in disappointment , " the senior officials *keep* *themselves* hidden .
`` I 'd be saying too much if I told you that , '' answered Leni . " Please do n't ask for names , but do stop making these mistakes of yours , stop being so unyielding , there 's nothing you can do to *defend* *yourself* from this court , you have to confess .
`` That 's alright , then , '' she said , and *made* *herself* comfortable on his lap by smoothing out her skirt and adjusting her blouse .
Would she be capable of *sacrificing* *herself* for you , though ? "
`` No , '' said K. , " she is n't gentle or friendly , and nor would she be capable of *sacrificing* *herself* for me .
Eventually we could n't keep up the pretence any longer , but these are polite and highly capable men , they did n't say anything about it so as to spare my feelings but in the end not even they could continue to *force* *themselves* and , as they could n't speak about the matter in hand , they became silent .
And , of course , there 's no way of *defending* *yourself* from this , something said in private is indeed in private and can not then be used in public , it 's not something that makes it easy for the defence to keep those gentlemen 's favour .
Bearing all this in mind , does it still surprise K. that the officials are irritated and often *express* *themselves* about the litigants in unflattering ways - which is an experience shared by everyone . All the officials are irritated , even when they appear calm .
One lawyer after another was sent out to run up the steps and *let* *himself* be thrown down again , offering what resistance he could as long as it was passive resistance , and his colleagues would catch him at the bottom of the steps .
Even if it were possible to improve any detail of it - which is anyway no more than superstitious nonsense - the best that they could achieve , although *doing* *themselves* incalculable harm in the process , is that they will have attracted the special attention of the officials for any case that comes up in the future , and the officials are always ready to seek revenge .
Client and trial are both simply taken away from the lawyer ; and then even contact with the court officials wo n't help , however good they are , as they do n't know *anything* *themselves* .
It was much better not to give away any details before their time , as in that way K. could only be influenced unfavourably and his hopes might be raised or he might be made too anxious , better just to say that some individuals have spoken very favourably and *shown* *themselves* very willing to help , although others have spoken less favourably , but even they have not in any way refused to help .
Maybe everything the lawyer said was quite right , even though he obviously wanted to *make* *himself* as conspicuous as possible and probably had never even taken on a case as important as he said K. 's was .
On winter 's mornings such as this , when he was very tired and everything *dragged* *itself* lethargically through his head , this belief of his seemed irrefutable .
But now , his uncle had already dragged him to see the lawyer , he had to take account of his family ; his job was no longer totally separate from the progress of the trial , he himself had carelessly - with a certain , inexplicable complacency - mentioned it to acquaintances and others had learned about it in ways he did not know , his relationship with Miss Brstner seemed to be in trouble because of it . In short , he no longer had any choice whether he would accept the trial or turn it down , he was in the middle of it and had to *defend* *himself* .
He had been capable of *working* *himself* up to his high position in the bank in a relatively short time and to retain it with respect from everyone , now he simply had to apply some of the talents that had made that possible for him to the trial , and there was no doubt that it had to turn out well .
The lawyer had told him , as he talked to him , that that was something unheard of and would probably do him a great deal of harm , but K. could not tolerate any impediment to his efforts where his trial was concerned , and these impediments were probably caused by the *lawyer* *himself* .
And K. had indeed , at first , been closely following what the manufacturer was saying , he too was aware of how important the deal was , but unfortunately it did not last , he soon stopped listening , nodded at each of the manufacturer 's louder exclamations for a short while , but eventually he stopped doing even that and did no more than stare at the bald head bent over the papers , *asking* *himself* when the manufacturer would finally realise that everything he was saying was useless .
Carefully and slowly turning his eyes upwards , he tried to learn what was taking place above him , took one of the papers from his desk without looking to see what it was , lay it on the flat of his hand and raised it slowly up as he rose up to the level of the two *men* *himself* .
K. still had enough control of himself to turn away from the deputy director and direct his friendly , albeit stiff , smile only at the manufacturer , he made no other retaliation , bent down slightly and *supported* *himself* with both hands on his desk like a clerk , and watched as the two gentlemen , still talking , took the papers from his desk and disappeared into the manager 's office .
Now , in contrast , if he was to conduct his defence himself , he would have to *devote* *himself* entirely to the court - for the time being , at least - success would mean , later on , his complete and conclusive liberation , but if he was to achieve this he would have to *place* *himself* , to start with , in far greater danger than he had been in so far .
Did a carefully worked out defence - and any other sort would have made no sense - did a carefully worked out defence not also mean he would need to *shut* *himself* off from everything else as much as he could ?
It was true that he was well disposed towards K. , and as soon as he heard about the trial he would probably try to do everything he could to make it easier for him , but he would certainly not *devote* *himself* to it . K. at one time had provided the counter-balance to what the deputy director said but the director was now coming more and more under his influence , and the deputy director would also exploit the weakened condition of the director to strengthen his own power .
Maybe considerations of this sort weakened his power of resistance , but it was still necessary not to *deceive* *oneself* and to see everything as clearly as it could be seen at that moment .
You 're nearly a *lawyer* *yourself* .
And just now , just when he would have to act with all the strength he could muster , now a number of doubts of a sort he had never before known had *presented* *themselves* and affected his own vigilance !
Now , at least , he *found* *himself* quite unable to understand how he could have intended to write to Titorelli and invite him into the bank .
You 've already *seen* *yourselves* how long I 've been delayed .
`` Paint your portrait ? '' she asked , opening her mouth too wide and lightly hitting K. with her hand as if he had said something extraordinarily surprising or clumsy , with both hands she lifted her skirt , which was already very short , and , as fast as she could , she ran off after the other girls whose indistinct shouts *lost* *themselves* in the heights .
They stood on both sides of the stairs , *pressing* *themselves* against the wall so that K. could get through between them , and smoothed their aprons down with their hands .
Then he shut the door , bowed once more to K. , offered him his hand and *introduced* *himself* , saying , `` Titorelli , painter . '' K. pointed to the door , behind which the girls were whispering , and said , `` You seem to be very popular in this building . ''
This impression was augmented by the painter 's asking , `` Were you wanting to buy some pictures or did you want to *have* *yourself* painted ? ''
At first K. was about to say , `` He certainly is a judge , '' but he *held* *himself* back for the time being and went closer to the picture as if he wanted to study it in detail .
" And he has *himself* *painted* in such a grand pose ?
`` Yeah , gentlemen like this are very vain , '' said the painter . " But they have permission from higher up to *get* *themselves* painted like this .
K. found the painter 's work more engrossing than he had wanted ; but finally he *reproached* *himself* for staying so long without having done anything relevant to his own affair .
K. forewent the opportunity to *excuse* *himself* in some way as he did not wish to distract the painter from what he was saying , or else perhaps he did n't want him to get too far above himself and in this way *make* *himself* to some extent unattainable , so he asked , `` Is that a publicly acknowledged position ? ''
The painter even seemed to misunderstand why K. remained at the edge of the bed and urged K. to *make* *himself* comfortable , and as he hesitated he went over to the bed himself and pressed K. deep down into the bedclothes and pillows .
If I painted all the judges next to each other here on canvas , and you were trying to *defend* *yourself* in front of it , you 'd have more success with them than you 'd ever have with the real court . "
`` How do you intend to do that ? '' asked K. `` You did *say* *yourself* not long ago that it 's quite impossible to go to the court with reasons and proofs . ''
`` Only impossible for reasons and proofs you take to the *court* *yourself* '' said the painter , raising his forefinger as if K. had failed to notice a fine distinction .
The painter did not *let* *himself* be distracted , but said , `` In your case , for instance , as you 're totally innocent , this is what I 'll do . ''
But despite these doubts K. *forced* *himself* not to interrupt the painter .
At first , K. was astonished at this orderly explanation , but then , just as quietly as the painter , he said , `` I think you 're *contradicting* *yourself* . ''
This smile made K. feel as if he were examining not the words of the painter but seeking out inconsistencies in the procedures of the *court* *itself* .
When I was a boy I used to listen closely to my father when he told us about court cases at home , and the judges that came to his studio talked about the court , in our circles nobody talks about anything else ; I hardly ever got the chance to go to *court* *myself* but always made use of it when I could , I 've listened to countless trials at important stages in their development , I 've followed them closely as far as they could be followed , and I have to say that I 've never seen a single acquittal . "
He had *prepared* *himself* even for the fog that he would breathe in through his open mouth .
The painter had leant back and *spread* *himself* out in his chair , his nightshirt was wide open , he had pushed his hand inside and was stroking his breast and his sides .
K. placed his hand on his winter overcoat but could not *bring* *himself* to put it on .
K. *expressed* *himself* in this curt way without any thought , so he was glad when the painter did not take this amiss and picked up a second painting from the floor .
They had clearly seen that the second door of the studio had been opened and had gone around to *impose* *themselves* on him from this side .
Someone unlocked the door , but kept *himself* *pressed* against it as he called back inside , `` It 's him ! , '' and only then did he open the door properly .
`` Block . I 'm a businessman , '' said the small man , *twisting* *himself* round as he thus *introduced* *himself* , although K. did not allow him to stop moving .
He *felt* *himself* as much at liberty as is normally only felt in foreign parts when speaking with people of lower standing , keeping everything about himself to himself , speaking only casually about the interests of the other , able to raise him to a level above one 's own , but also able , at will , to let him drop again .
`` So you 're also working at the *court* *yourself* ? '' asked K. `` That 's just what I want to learn more about . ''
You *know* *yourself* what the air is like in those offices . "
`` I expect I 'll have to go there quite often *myself* *now* , '' said K. , " although I can hardly expect to be shown the same respect as I was then .
I repeat that all this is just a ridiculous superstition , and in most cases it 's completely disproved by the facts , but when you live in that society it 's hard to *hold* *yourself* back from beliefs like that .
He told us all later he thought he could see something in your lips that meant he 'd be *convicted* *himself* . "
`` On my lips ? '' asked K. , pulling out a pocket mirror and *examining* *himself* . " I can see nothing special about my lips .
`` Do you then have that much contact with each other , exchanging each other 's opinions ? '' said K. `` I 've *kept* *myself* completely apart so far . ''
`` Waiting is not pointless , '' said the businessman , " it 's only pointless if you try and *interfere* *yourself* .
Most of all , there was lots of Latin , which I ca n't understand , then pages and pages of general appeals to the court , then lots of flattery for particular officials , they were n't named , these officials , but anyone familiar with the court must have been able to guess who they were , then there was self-praise by the lawyer where he *humiliated* *himself* to the court in a way that was downright dog-like , and then endless investigations of cases from the past which were supposed to be similar to mine .
It 's best if you do n't *let* *yourself* be misled in that way .
She *attaches* *herself* to each of them , loves each of them , even seems to be loved by each of them ; then she sometimes entertains me by telling me about them when I allow her to .
The lawyer must have noticed that K. was offering him more resistance than before , as he became silent , giving K. the chance to *speak* *himself* , and then , as K. also remained silent , he asked , `` Did you have a particular reason for coming to see me today ? ''
`` Do I understand you rightly ? '' asked the lawyer as he half *raised* *himself* in his bed and *supported* *himself* with one hand on the pillow .
It was very unwelcome for K. to hear the old man speak in this touching way , as it forced him to *explain* *himself* more fully , which he would rather have avoided , and he was aware that it also confused him even though it could never make him reverse his decision .
I would naturally never attempt , considering that you are so much older and more experienced than I am , to convince you of my opinion ; if I have ever unintentionally done so then I beg your forgiveness , but , as you have just *said* *yourself* , the circumstances are important enough and it is my belief that my trial needs to be approached with much more vigour than has so far been the case . "
How the lawyer was *humiliating* *himself* to K. !
Was it something personal for his uncle 's sake , or did he really see K. 's case as one that was exceptional and hoped to be able to *distinguish* *himself* with it , either for K. 's sake or - and this possibility could never be excluded - for his friends at the court ?
But despite that I do n't regret my decision , quite possibly I should have turned more cases away than I did , but it did turn out to be entirely necessary for me to *devote* *myself* fully to the cases I did take on , and the successful results showed that it was worth it .
K. could have encouraged to enter , but he had decided to make a final break not only with the lawyer but with everything in his home , so he *kept* *himself* motionless .
`` I will , '' said Block , as if speaking to himself to *give* *himself* courage , and with a quick glance to the side he kneeled down close beside the bed .
In the silence while he did so , Leni , as she *freed* *herself* from K. 's hands , said , " You 're hurting me .
What do you think he 'd say if he learned his trial still has n't begun , if you told him they have n't even rung the bell to announce the start of proceedings ? ' Alright Block , alright , " said the lawyer , as at these words Block had begun to *raise* *himself* on his trembling knees and clearly wanted to plead for some explanation .
When he spoke very calmly he understood almost everything , but that was very infrequent , mostly the words gushed from his mouth and he seemed to be *enjoying* *himself* so much his head shook .
K. began to anticipate many difficulties , he gave up trying to understand what the Italian said - with the director there , who could understand him so easily , it would have been pointless effort - and for the time being did no more than scowl at the Italian as he relaxed sitting deep but comfortable in the armchair , as he frequently pulled at his short , sharply tailored jacket and at one time lifted his arms in the air and moved his hands freely to try and depict something that K. could not grasp , even though he was leaning forward and did not let the hands out of his sight . K. had nothing to *occupy* *himself* but mechanically watch the exchange between the two men and his tiredness finally *made* *itself* felt , to his alarm , although fortunately in good time , he once *caught* *himself* nearly getting up , turning round and leaving .
Eventually the Italian looked at the clock and jumped up . After taking his leave from the director he turned to K. , *pressing* *himself* so close to him that K. had to push his chair back just so that he could move .
As he was tired he wanted to sit down , he went back inside the cathedral , he found something like a small carpet on one of the steps , he moved it with his foot to a nearby pew , *wrapped* *himself* up tighter in his coat , put the collar up and sat down .
It was discourteous of the Italian not to come but it was also sensible of him , there would have been nothing to see , they would have had to *content* *themselves* with seeking out a few pictures with K. 's electric pocket torch and looking at them one small part at a time .
But under the pulpit - K. grinned in astonishment - there really was a priest standing with his hand on the handrail ready to climb the steps and looking at K. Then he nodded very slightly , so that K. *crossed* *himself* and genuflected as he should have done earlier .
`` Yes , '' said K. , he considered how freely he had always given his name in the past , for some time now it had been a burden to him , now there were people who knew his name whom he had never seen before , it had been so nice first to *introduce* *yourself* and only then for people to know who you were .
If the priest knew of such a possibility he might , if K. asked him , let him know about it , even though he was part of the *court* *himself* and even though , when K. had criticised the court , he had held down his gentle nature and actually shouted at K.
`` Do n't *fool* *yourself* , '' said the priest .
`` You *fool* *yourself* in the court , '' said the priest , " it talks about this self-deceit in the opening paragraphs to the law . In front of the law there is a doorkeeper .
They see his ideas of what 's inside the law as rather childish , and suppose he 's *afraid* *himself* of what he wants to make the man frightened of .
There would be nothing heroic about it if he resisted , if he now caused trouble for these gentlemen , if in *defending* *himself* he sought to enjoy his last glimmer of life .
He started walking , which pleased the gentlemen and some of their pleasure *conveyed* *itself* to him .
The moonlight glittered and quivered in the water , which *divided* *itself* around a small island covered in a densely-piled mass of foliage and trees and bushes .
Beneath them , now invisible , there were gravel paths with comfortable benches where K. had *stretched* *himself* out on many summer 's days .
In this way they quickly left the built up area and *found* *themselves* in the fields which , in this part of town , began almost without any transition zone .
One morning , when Gregor Samsa woke from troubled dreams , he found *himself* *transformed* in his bed into a horrible vermin .
However hard he *threw* *himself* onto his right , he always rolled back to where he was .
He felt a slight itch up on his belly ; *pushed* *himself* slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better ; found where the itch was , and saw that it was covered with lots of little white spots which he did n't know what to make of ; and when he tried to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder .
Gregor had wanted to give a full answer and explain everything , but in the circumstances *contented* *himself* with saying : `` Yes , mother , yes , thank-you , I 'm getting up now . ''
He remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in bed , perhaps caused by lying awkwardly , but that had always turned out to be pure imagination and he wondered how his imaginings would slowly *resolve* *themselves* today .
It was a simple matter to throw off the covers ; he only had to *blow* *himself* up a little and they fell off by themselves .
He would have used his arms and his hands to *push* *himself* up ; but instead of them he only had all those little legs continuously moving in different directions , and which he was moreover unable to control .
If he wanted to bend one of them , then that was the first one that would *stretch* *itself* out ; and if he finally managed to do what he wanted with that leg , all the others seemed to be set free and would move about painfully .
The first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body out of the bed , but he had never seen this lower part , and could not imagine what it looked like ; it turned out to be too hard to move ; it went so slowly ; and finally , almost in a frenzy , when he carelessly *shoved* *himself* forwards with all the force he could gather , he chose the wrong direction , hit hard against the lower bedpost , and learned from the burning pain he felt that the lower part of his body might well , at present , be the most sensitive .
But when he had at last got his head out of the bed and into the fresh air it occurred to him that if he *let* *himself* fall it would be a miracle if his head were not injured , so he became afraid to carry on *pushing* *himself* forward the same way .
And he could not *knock* *himself* out now at any price ; better to stay in bed than lose consciousness .
It took just as much effort to get back to where he had been earlier , but when he lay there sighing , and was once more watching his legs as they struggled against each other even harder than before , if that was possible , he could think of no way of bringing peace and order to this chaos . He *told* *himself* once more that it was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible thing to do would be to get free of it in whatever way he could at whatever sacrifice .
At the same time , though , he did not forget to *remind* *himself* that calm consideration was much better than rushing to desperate conclusions .
And so he *set* *himself* to the task of swinging the entire length of his body out of the bed all at the same time .
Was it really not enough to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were even necessary - did the chief clerk have to *come* *himself* , and did they have to show the whole , innocent family that this was so suspicious that only the chief clerk could be trusted to have the wisdom to investigate it ?
And more because these thoughts had made him upset than through any proper decision , he *swang* *himself* with all his force out of the bed .
You *barricade* *yourself* in your room , give us no more than yes or no for an answer , you are causing serious and unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and I mention this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in a way that is quite unheard of .
And while Gregor gushed out these words , hardly knowing what he was saying , he made his way over to the chest of drawers - this was easily done , probably because of the practise he had already had in bed - where he now tried to *get* *himself* upright .
The first few times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just slid down again , but he finally *gave* *himself* one last swing and stood there upright ; the lower part of his body was in serious pain but he no longer gave any attention to it .
Now he *let* *himself* fall against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of it with his little legs .
Gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair . Once there he let go of it and *threw* *himself* onto the door , *holding* *himself* upright against it using the adhesive on the tips of his legs .
He rested there a little while to recover from the effort involved and then *set* *himself* to the task of turning the key in the lock with his mouth .
And with the idea that they were all excitedly following his efforts , he bit on the key with all his strength , paying no attention to the pain he was *causing* *himself* .
As the key turned round he turned around the lock with it , only *holding* *himself* upright with his mouth , and hung onto the key or pushed it down again with the whole weight of his body as needed .
He had first to slowly *turn* *himself* around one of the double doors , and he had to do it very carefully if he did not want to fall flat on his back before entering the room .
Gregor 's mother , her hair still dishevelled from bed despite the chief clerk 's being there , looked at his father . Then she unfolded her arms , took two steps forward towards Gregor and sank down onto the floor into her skirts that *spread* *themselves* out around her as her head disappeared down onto her breast .
But you , sir , you have a better overview than the rest of the staff , in fact , if I can say this in confidence , a better overview than the *boss* *himself* - it 's very easy for a businessman like him to make mistakes about his employees and judge them more harshly than he should .
And you 're also well aware that we travellers spend almost the whole year away from the office , so that we can very easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints , and it 's almost impossible to *defend* *yourself* from that sort of thing , we do n't usually even hear about them , or if at all it 's when we arrive back home exhausted from a trip , and that 's when we feel the harmful effects of what 's been going on without even knowing what caused them .
But his sister was not there , Gregor would have to do the *job* *himself* .
And without considering that he still was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present state , or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - be understood , he let go of the door ; *pushed* *himself* through the opening ; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who , ridiculously , was holding on to the banister with both hands ; but Gregor fell immediately over and , with a little scream as he sought something to hold onto , landed on his numerous little legs .
He had completely forgotten the chief clerk for the moment , but could not *help* *himself* snapping in the air with his jaws at the sight of the flow of coffee .
Eventually , though , Gregor realised that he had no choice as he saw , to his disgust , that he was quite incapable of going backwards in a straight line ; so he began , as quickly as possible and with frequent anxious glances at his father , to *turn* *himself* round .
When he had nearly finished turning round , still listening to that hissing , he made a mistake and *turned* *himself* back a little the way he had just come .
Nor would he ever have allowed Gregor the time to *get* *himself* upright as preparation for getting through the doorway .
What he did , making more noise than ever , was to drive Gregor forwards all the harder as if there had been nothing in the way ; it sounded to Gregor as if there was now more than one father behind him ; it was not a pleasant experience , and Gregor *pushed* *himself* into the doorway without regard for what might happen .
One side of his body *lifted* *itself* , he lay at an angle in the doorway , one flank scraped on the white door and was painfully injured , leaving vile brown flecks on it , soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all by himself , the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the ground . Then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which released him from where he was held and sent him flying , and heavily bleeding , deep into his room .
He *pushed* *himself* over to the door , feeling his way clumsily with his antennae - of which he was now beginning to learn the value - in order to see what had been happening there .
If she did n't do it herself he would rather go hungry than draw her attention to it , although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the couch , *throw* *himself* at his sister 's feet and beg her for something good to eat .
She had hardly turned her back before Gregor came out again from under the couch and *stretched* *himself* .
When explaining things , his father *repeated* *himself* several times , partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with these matters himself and partly because Gregor 's mother did not understand everything the first time . From these repeated explanations Gregor learned , to his pleasure , that despite all their misfortunes there was still some money available from the old days .
He could actually have used this surplus money to reduce his father 's debt to his boss , and the day when he could have *freed* *himself* from that job would have come much closer , but now it was certainly better the way his father had done things .
Whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money , Gregor would always first let go of the door and then *throw* *himself* onto the cool , leather sofa next to it , as he became quite hot with shame and regret .
Gregor went straight to *hide* *himself* under the couch , of course , but he had to wait until midday before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than usual .
If she did not think this sheet was necessary then all she had to do was take it off again , as it was clear enough that it was no pleasure for Gregor to *cut* *himself* off so completely . She left the sheet where it was .
For the first fourteen days , Gregor 's parents could not *bring* *themselves* to come into the room to see him . He would often hear them say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing even though , before , they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat useless and frequently been annoyed with her .
Out of consideration for his parents , Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day , the few square meters of the floor did not give him much room to crawl about , it was hard to just lie quietly through the night , his food soon stopped giving him any pleasure at all , and so , to *entertain* *himself* , he got into the habit of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling .
Very soon his sister noticed Gregor 's new way of *entertaining* *himself* - he had , after all , left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about - and got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him by removing the furniture that got in his way , especially the chest of drawers and the desk .
The old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair of feeble women to be heaving about , but Gregor listened as they pushed it from its place , his sister always taking on the heaviest part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother 's warnings that she would *strain* *herself* .
Gregor kept trying to *assure* *himself* that nothing unusual was happening , it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after all , but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro , their little calls to each other , the scraping of the furniture on the floor , all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed from all sides . With his head and legs pulled in against him and his body pressed to the floor , he was forced to admit to himself that he could not stand all of this much longer .
So , while the women were leant against the desk in the other room catching their breath , he sallied out , changed direction four times not knowing what he should save first before his attention was suddenly caught by the picture on the wall - which was already denuded of everything else that had been on it - of the lady dressed in copious fur . He hurried up onto the picture and *pressed* *himself* against its glass , it held him firmly and felt good on his hot belly .
They had not *allowed* *themselves* a long rest and came back quite soon ; Grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly carrying her .
She ran into the other room to fetch some kind of smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint ; Gregor wanted to help too - he could save his picture later , although he stuck fast to the glass and had to *pull* *himself* off by force ; then he , too , ran into the next room as if he could advise his sister like in the old days ; but he had to just stand behind her doing nothing ; she was looking into various bottles , he startled her when she turned round ; a bottle fell to the ground and broke ; a splinter cut Gregor 's face , some kind of caustic medicine splashed all over him ; now , without delaying any longer , Grete took hold of all the bottles she could and ran with them in to her mother ; she slammed the door shut with her foot .
The maid , of course , had *locked* *herself* in her kitchen so that Grete would have to go and answer it . His father had arrived home .
So he fled to the door of his room and *pressed* *himself* against it so that his father , when he came in from the hall , could see straight away that Gregor had the best intentions and would go back into his room without delay , that it would not be necessary to drive him back but that they had only to open the door and he would disappear .
He probably did not even *know* *himself* what he had in mind , but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high .
Now , as he lurched about in his efforts to muster all the strength he could for running he could hardly keep his eyes open ; his thoughts became too slow for him to think of any other way of *saving* *himself* than running ; he almost forgot that the walls were there for him to use although , here , they were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and protrusions - then , right beside him , lightly tossed , something flew down and rolled in front of him .
Another one however , immediately following it , hit squarely and lodged in his back ; Gregor wanted to *drag* *himself* away , as if he could remove the surprising , the incredible pain by changing his position ; but he felt as if nailed to the spot and *spread* *himself* out , all his senses in confusion .
The last thing he saw was the door of his room being pulled open , his sister was screaming , his mother ran out in front of her in her blouse ( as his sister had taken off some of her clothes after she had fainted to make it easier for her to breathe ) , she ran to his father , her skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground , stumbling over the skirts she *pushed* *herself* to his father , her arms around him , *uniting* *herself* with him totally - now Gregor lost his ability to see anything - her hands behind his father 's head begging him to spare Gregor 's life .
This is what peace I get in my old age ! " And supported by the two women he would *lift* *himself* up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load himself , let the women take him to the door , send them off and carry on by himself while Gregor 's mother would throw down her needle and his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and continue being of help to him .
They carried out absolutely everything that the world expects from poor people , Gregor 's father brought bank employees their breakfast , his mother *sacrificed* *herself* by washing clothes for strangers , his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers , but they just did not have the strength to do any more .
Just by chance one day , rather than any real curiosity , she opened the door to Gregor 's room and found *herself* *face* to face with him . He was taken totally by surprise , no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in front of her .
Only if he happened to *find* *himself* next to the food that had been prepared for him he might take some of it into his mouth to play with it , leave it there a few hours and then , more often than not , spit it out again .
They do *feed* *themselves* . And here I am , dying ! "
What 's more , there was now all the more reason to *keep* *himself* hidden as he was covered in the dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest movement ; he carried threads , hairs , and remains of food about on his back and sides ; he was much too indifferent to everything now to lay on his back and *wipe* *himself* on the carpet like he had used to do several times a day .
Meanwhile Gregor 's sister had overcome the despair she had fallen into when her playing was suddenly interrupted . She had let her hands drop and let violin and bow hang limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if still playing , but then she suddenly *pulled* *herself* together , lay the instrument on her mother 's lap who still sat laboriously struggling for breath where she was , and ran into the next room which , under pressure from her father , the three gentlemen were more quickly moving toward .
Gregor 's father staggered back to his seat , feeling his way with his hands , and fell into it ; it looked as if he was *stretching* *himself* out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head kept nodding it could be seen that he was not sleeping at all .
We 've only *harmed* *ourselves* by believing it for so long .
In her alarm , which was totally beyond Gregor 's comprehension , his sister even abandoned his mother as she *pushed* *herself* vigorously out of her chair as if more willing to sacrifice her own mother than stay anywhere near Gregor . She rushed over to behind her father , who had become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his hands in front of Gregor 's sister as if to protect her .
All he had done was begin to turn round so that he could go back into his room , although that was in itself quite startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help *himself* *do* it , repeatedly raising it and striking it against the floor .
`` What now , then ? , '' Gregor *asked* *himself* as he looked round in the darkness .
`` Now then , '' said Mr. Samsa , `` let 's give thanks to God for that . '' He *crossed* *himself* , and the three women followed his example .
At first , he stood there still , looking at the ground as if the contents of his head were *rearranging* *themselves* into new positions .
Such dominions thus acquired are either accustomed to live under a prince , or to live in freedom ; and are acquired either by the arms of the *prince* *himself* , or of others , or else by fortune or by ability .
I will leave out all discussion on republics , inasmuch as in another place I have written of them at length , and will *address* *myself* only to principalities .
I say at once there are fewer difficulties in holding hereditary states , and those long accustomed to the family of their prince , than new ones ; for it is sufficient only not to transgress the customs of his ancestors , and to deal prudently with circumstances as they arise , for a prince of average powers to *maintain* *himself* in his state , unless he be deprived of it by some extraordinary and excessive force ; and if he should be so deprived of it , whenever anything sinister happens to the usurper , he will regain it .
For these reasons Louis the Twelfth , King of France , quickly occupied Milan , and as quickly lost it ; and to turn him out the first time it only needed Lodovico 's own forces ; because those who had opened the gates to him , *finding* *themselves* deceived in their hopes of future benefit , would not endure the ill-treatment of the new prince .
It is very true that , after acquiring rebellious provinces a second time , they are not so lightly lost afterwards , because the prince , with little reluctance , takes the opportunity of the rebellion to punish the delinquents , to clear out the suspects , and to *strengthen* *himself* in the weakest places .
The general reasons for the first have been discussed ; it remains to name those for the second , and to see what resources he had , and what any one in his situation would have had for *maintaining* *himself* more securely in his acquisition than did the King of France .
Upon this , one has to remark that men ought either to be well treated or crushed , because they can *avenge* *themselves* of lighter injuries , of more serious ones they can not ; therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge .
Again , the prince who holds a country differing in the above respects ought to *make* *himself* the head and defender of his less powerful neighbours , and to weaken the more powerful amongst them , taking care that no foreigner as powerful as himself shall , by any accident , get a footing there ; for it will always happen that such a one will be introduced by those who are discontented , either through excess of ambition or through fear , as one has seen already .
Let any one now consider with what little difficulty the king could have maintained his position in Italy had he observed the rules above laid down , and kept all his friends secure and protected ; for although they were numerous they were both weak and timid , some afraid of the Church , some of the Venetians , and thus they would always have been forced to stand in with him , and by their means he could easily have made *himself* *secure* against those who remained powerful .
It never occurred to him that by this action he was *weakening* *himself* , *depriving* *himself* of friends and of those who had *thrown* *themselves* into his lap , whilst he aggrandized the Church by adding much temporal power to the spiritual , thus giving it greater authority .
And having committed this prime error , he was obliged to follow it up , so much so that , to put an end to the ambition of Alexander , and to prevent his becoming the master of Tuscany , he was *himself* *forced* to come into Italy .
And as if it were not enough to have aggrandized the Church , and *deprived* *himself* of friends , he , wishing to have the kingdom of Naples , divides it with the King of Spain , and where he was the prime arbiter in Italy he takes an associate , so that the ambitious of that country and the malcontents of his own should have somewhere to shelter ; and whereas he could have left in the kingdom his own pensioner as king , he drove him out , to put one there who was able to drive him , Louis , out in turn .
Which errors , had he lived , were not enough to injure him had he not made a sixth by taking away their dominions from the Venetians ; because , had he not aggrandized the Church , nor brought Spain into Italy , it would have been very reasonable and necessary to humble them ; but having first taken these steps , he ought never to have consented to their ruin , for they , being powerful , would always have kept off others from designs on Lombardy , to which the Venetians would never have consented except to become masters *themselves* *there* ; also because the others would not wish to take Lombardy from France in order to give it to the Venetians , and to run counter to both they would not have had the courage .
Considering the difficulties which men have had to hold to a newly acquired state , some might wonder how , seeing that Alexander the Great became the master of Asia in a few years , and died whilst it was scarcely settled ( whence it might appear reasonable that the whole empire would have rebelled ) , nevertheless his successors *maintained* *themselves* , and had to meet no other difficulty than that which arose among themselves from their own ambitions .
Nor is it enough for you to have exterminated the family of the prince , because the lords that remain *make* *themselves* the heads of fresh movements against you , and as you are unable either to satisfy or exterminate them , that state is lost whenever time brings the opportunity .
And if his successors had been united they would have enjoyed it securely and at their ease , for there were no tumults raised in the kingdom except those they *provoked* *themselves* .
But when cities or countries are accustomed to live under a prince , and his family is exterminated , they , being on the one hand accustomed to obey and on the other hand not having the old prince , can not agree in making one from amongst themselves , and they do not know how to *govern* *themselves* .
It behoved him , therefore , to upset this state of affairs and embroil the powers , so as to *make* *himself* securely master of part of their states .
The duke , therefore , having acquired the Romagna and beaten the Colonnesi , while wishing to hold that and to advance further , was hindered by two things : the one , his forces did not appear loyal to him , the other , the goodwill of France : that is to say , he feared that the forces of the Orsini , which he was using , would not stand to him , that not only might they hinder him from winning more , but might *themselves* *seize* what he had won , and that the king might also do the same .
And because he knew that the past severity had caused some hatred against himself , so , to *clear* *himself* in the minds of the people , and gain them entirely to himself , he desired to show that , if any cruelty had been practised , it had not originated with him , but in the natural sternness of the minister .
But let us return whence we started . I say that the duke , *finding* *himself* now sufficiently powerful and partly secured from immediate dangers by having armed himself in his own way , and having in a great measure crushed those forces in his vicinity that could injure him if he wished to proceed with his conquest , had next to consider France , for he knew that the king , who too late was aware of his mistake , would not support him .
It was his intention to *secure* *himself* against them , and this he would have quickly accomplished had Alexander lived .
On the day that Julius the Second was elected , he told me that he had thought of everything that might occur at the death of his father , and had provided a remedy for all , except that he had never anticipated that , when the death did happen , *he* *himself* would be on the point to die .
Therefore , he who considers it necessary to *secure* *himself* in his new principality , to win friends , to overcome either by force or fraud , to *make* *himself* beloved and feared by the people , to be followed and revered by the soldiers , to exterminate those who have power or reason to hurt him , to change the old order of things for new , to be severe and gracious , magnanimous and liberal , to destroy a disloyal soldiery and to create new , to maintain friendship with kings and princes in such a way that they must help him with zeal and offend with caution , can not find a more lively example than the actions of this man .
Nevertheless , he accompanied his infamies with so much ability of mind and body that , having *devoted* *himself* to the military profession , he rose through its ranks to be Praetor of Syracuse .
Being established in that position , and having deliberately resolved to make *himself* *prince* and to seize by violence , without obligation to others , that which had been conceded to him by assent , he came to an understanding for this purpose with Amilcar , the Carthaginian , who , with his army , was fighting in Sicily .
Still , if the courage of Agathocles in entering into and *extricating* *himself* from dangers be considered , together with his greatness of mind in enduring and overcoming hardships , it can not be seen why he should be esteemed less than the most notable captain .
When the viands and all the other entertainments that are usual in such banquets were finished , Oliverotto artfully began certain grave discourses , speaking of the greatness of Pope Alexander and his son Cesare , and of their enterprises , to which discourse Giovanni and others answered ; but he rose at once , saying that such matters ought to be discussed in a more private place , and he *betook* *himself* to a chamber , whither Giovanni and the rest of the citizens went in after him .
And his destruction would have been as difficult as that of Agathocles if he had not *allowed* *himself* to be overreached by Cesare Borgia , who took him with the Orsini and Vitelli at Sinigalia , as was stated above . Thus one year after he had committed this parricide , he was strangled , together with Vitellozzo , whom he had made his leader in valour and wickedness .
Some may wonder how it can happen that Agathocles , and his like , after infinite treacheries and cruelties , should live for long secure in his country , and *defend* *himself* from external enemies , and never be conspired against by his own citizens ; seeing that many others , by means of cruelty , have never been able even in peaceful times to hold the state , still less in the doubtful times of war .
It is impossible for those who follow the other to *maintain* *themselves* .
He who does otherwise , either from timidity or evil advice , is always compelled to keep the knife in his hand ; neither can he rely on his subjects , nor can they *attach* *themselves* to him , owing to their continued and repeated wrongs .
He who obtains sovereignty by the assistance of the nobles *maintains* *himself* with more difficulty than he who comes to it by the aid of the people , because the former *finds* *himself* with many around him who *consider* *themselves* his equals , and because of this he can neither rule nor manage them to his liking .
But he who reaches sovereignty by popular favour *finds* *himself* alone , and has none around him , or few , who are not prepared to obey him .
It is to be added also that a prince can never *secure* *himself* against a hostile people , because of their being too many , whilst from the nobles he can *secure* *himself* , as they are few in number .
The worst that a prince may expect from a hostile people is to be abandoned by them ; but from hostile nobles he has not only to fear abandonment , but also that they will rise against him ; for they , being in these affairs more far-seeing and astute , always come forward in time to *save* *themselves* , and to obtain favours from him whom they expect to prevail .
Those who so *bind* *themselves* , and are not rapacious , ought to be honoured and loved ; those who do not *bind* *themselves* may be dealt with in two ways ; they may fail to do this through pusillanimity and a natural want of courage , in which case you ought to make use of them , especially of those who are of good counsel ; and thus , whilst in prosperity you honour them , in adversity you do not have to fear them .
But when for their own ambitious ends they shun *binding* *themselves* , it is a token that they are giving more thought to themselves than to you , and a prince ought to guard against such , and to fear them as if they were open enemies , because in adversity they always help to ruin him .
Nabis , Prince of the Spartans , sustained the attack of all Greece , and of a victorious Roman army , and against them he defended his country and his government ; and for the overcoming of this peril it was only necessary for him to *make* *himself* secure against a few , but this would not have been sufficient had the people been hostile .
And do not let any one impugn this statement with the trite proverb that `` He who builds on the people , builds on the mud , '' for this is true when a private citizen makes a foundation there , and *persuades* *himself* that the people will free him when he is oppressed by his enemies or by the magistrates ; wherein he would *find* *himself* very often deceived , as happened to the Gracchi in Rome and to Messer Giorgio Scali in Florence .
But granted a prince who has *established* *himself* as above , who can command , and is a man of courage , undismayed in adversity , who does not fail in other qualifications , and who , by his resolution and energy , keeps the whole people encouraged - such a one will never *find* *himself* deceived in them , and it will be shown that he has laid his foundations well .
It is necessary to consider another point in examining the character of these principalities : that is , whether a prince has such power that , in case of need , he can *support* *himself* with his own resources , or whether he has always need of the assistance of others .
And to make this quite clear I say that I consider those who are able to *support* *themselves* by their own resources who can , either by abundance of men or money , raise a sufficient army to join battle against any one who comes to attack them ; and I consider those always to have need of others who can not *show* *themselves* against the enemy in the field , but are forced to *defend* *themselves* by sheltering behind walls .
Therefore , a prince who has a strong city , and had not *made* *himself* odious , will not be attacked , or if any one should attack he will only be driven off with disgrace ; again , because that the affairs of this world are so changeable , it is almost impossible to keep an army a whole year in the field without being interfered with .
And whoever should reply : If the people have property outside the city , and see it burnt , they will not remain patient , and the long siege and self-interest will make them forget their prince ; to this I answer that a powerful and courageous prince will overcome all such difficulties by giving at one time hope to his subjects that the evil will not be for long , at another time fear of the cruelty of the enemy , then *preserving* *himself* adroitly from those subjects who seem to him to be too bold .
These princes alone have states and do not defend them ; and they have subjects and do not rule them ; and the states , although unguarded , are not taken from them , and the subjects , although not ruled , do not care , and they have neither the desire nor the ability to *alienate* *themselves* .
They are ready enough to be your soldiers whilst you do not make war , but if war comes they *take* *themselves* off or run from the foe ; which I should have little trouble to prove , for the ruin of Italy has been caused by nothing else than by resting all her hopes for many years on mercenaries , and although they formerly made some display and appeared valiant amongst themselves , yet when the foreigners came they showed what they were .
Duke Filippo being dead , the Milanese enlisted Francesco Sforza against the Venetians , and he , having overcome the enemy at Caravaggio , *allied* *himself* with them to crush the Milanese , his masters .
His father , Sforza , having been engaged by Queen Johanna of Naples , left her unprotected , so that she was forced to *throw* *herself* into the arms of the King of Aragon , in order to save her kingdom .
And if the Venetians and Florentines formerly extended their dominions by these arms , and yet their captains did not *make* *themselves* princes , but have defended them , I reply that the Florentines in this case have been favoured by chance , for of the able captains , of whom they might have stood in fear , some have not conquered , some have been opposed , and others have turned their ambitions elsewhere . One who did not conquer was Giovanni Acuto , and since he did not conquer his fidelity can not be proved ; but every one will acknowledge that , had he conquered , the Florentines would have stood at his discretion .
And in the beginning of their expansion on land , through not having much territory , and because of their great reputation , they had not much to fear from their captains ; but when they expanded , as under Carmignuola , they had a taste of this mistake ; for , having found him a most valiant man ( they beat the Duke of Milan under his leadership ) , and , on the other hand , knowing how lukewarm he was in the war , they feared they would no longer conquer under him , and for this reason they were not willing , nor were they able , to let him go ; and so , not to lose again that which they had acquired , they were compelled , in order to *secure* *themselves* , to murder him .
And although ancient histories may be full of examples , I do not wish to leave this recent one of Pope Julius the Second , the peril of which can not fail to be perceived ; for he , wishing to get Ferrara , *threw* *himself* entirely into the hands of the foreigner .
David *offered* *himself* to Saul to fight with Goliath , the Philistine champion , and , to give him courage , Saul armed him with his own weapons ; which David rejected as soon as he had them on his back , saying he could make no use of them , and that he wished to meet the enemy with his sling and his knife .
And the way to make ready one 's own forces will be easily found if the rules suggested by me shall be reflected upon , and if one will consider how Philip , the father of Alexander the Great , and many republics and princes have armed and organized themselves , to which rules I entirely *commit* *myself* .
For among other evils which being unarmed brings you , it causes you to be despised , and this is one of those ignominies against which a prince ought to *guard* *himself* , as is shown later on .
He ought never , therefore , to have out of his thoughts this subject of war , and in peace he should *addict* *himself* more to its exercise than in war ; this he can do in two ways , the one by action , the other by study .
Philopoemen , Prince of the Achaeans , among other praises which writers have bestowed on him , is commended because in time of peace he never had anything in his mind but the rules of war ; and when he was in the country with friends , he often stopped and reasoned with them : " If the enemy should be upon that hill , and we should *find* *ourselves* here with our army , with whom would be the advantage ?
But to exercise the intellect the prince should read histories , and study there the actions of illustrious men , to see how they have *borne* *themselves* in war , to examine the causes of their victories and defeat , so as to avoid the latter and imitate the former ; and above all do as an illustrious man did , who took as an exemplar one who had been praised and famous before him , and whose achievements and deeds he always kept in his mind , as it is said Alexander the Great imitated Achilles , Caesar Alexander , Scipio Cyrus .
Therefore , putting on one side imaginary things concerning a prince , and discussing those which are real , I say that all men when they are spoken of , and chiefly princes for being more highly placed , are remarkable for some of those qualities which bring them either blame or praise ; and thus it is that one is reputed liberal , another miserly , using a Tuscan term ( because an avaricious person in our language is still he who desires to possess by robbery , whilst we call one miserly who *deprives* *himself* too much of the use of his own ) ; one is reputed generous , one rapacious ; one cruel , one compassionate ; one faithless , another faithful ; one effeminate and cowardly , another bold and brave ; one affable , another haughty ; one lascivious , another chaste ; one sincere , another cunning ; one hard , another easy ; one grave , another frivolous ; one religious , another unbelieving , and the like .
And I know that every one will confess that it would be most praiseworthy in a prince to exhibit all the above qualities that are considered good ; but because they can neither be entirely possessed nor observed , for human conditions do not permit it , it is necessary for him to be sufficiently prudent that he may know how to avoid the reproach of those vices which would lose him his state ; and also to *keep* *himself* , if it be possible , from those which would not lose him it ; but this not being possible , he may with less hesitation abandon himself to them .
And again , he need not *make* *himself* uneasy at incurring a reproach for those vices without which the state can only be saved with difficulty , for if everything is considered carefully , it will be found that something which looks like virtue , if followed , would be his ruin ; whilst something else , which looks like vice , yet followed brings him security and prosperity .
Therefore , a prince , not being able to exercise this virtue of liberality in such a way that it is recognized , except to his cost , if he is wise he ought not to fear the reputation of being mean , for in time he will come to be more considered than if liberal , seeing that with his economy his revenues are enough , that he can *defend* *himself* against all attacks , and is able to engage in enterprises without burdening his people ; thus it comes to pass that he exercises liberality towards all from whom he does not take , who are numberless , and meanness towards those to whom he does not give , who are few .
A prince , therefore , provided that he has not to rob his subjects , that he can *defend* *himself* , that he does not become poor and abject , that he is not forced to become rapacious , ought to hold of little account a reputation for being mean , for it is one of those vices which will enable him to govern .
And a prince should *guard* *himself* , above all things , against being despised and hated ; and liberality leads you to both .
This disposition , if he had been continued in the command , would have destroyed in time the fame and glory of Scipio ; but , he being under the control of the Senate , this injurious characteristic not only *concealed* *itself* , but contributed to his glory .
Returning to the question of being feared or loved , I come to the conclusion that , men loving according to their own will and fearing according to that of the prince , a wise prince should *establish* *himself* on that which is in his own control and not in that of others ; he must endeavour only to avoid hatred , as is noted .
Therefore it is necessary for a prince to understand how to *avail* *himself* of the beast and the man .
A prince , therefore , being compelled knowingly to adopt the beast , ought to choose the fox and the lion ; because the lion can not *defend* *himself* against snares and the fox can not *defend* *himself* against wolves .
But it is necessary to know well how to disguise this characteristic , and to be a great pretender and dissembler ; and men are so simple , and so subject to present necessities , that he who seeks to deceive will always find someone who will *allow* *himself* to be deceived .
Therefore it is necessary for him to have a mind ready to *turn* *itself* accordingly as the winds and variations of fortune force it , yet , as I have said above , not to diverge from the good if he can avoid doing so , but , if compelled , then to know how to set about it .
Every one sees what you appear to be , few really know what you are , and those few dare not *oppose* *themselves* to the opinion of the many , who have the majesty of the state to defend them ; and in the actions of all men , and especially of princes , which it is not prudent to challenge , one judges by the result .
It makes him contemptible to be considered fickle , frivolous , effeminate , mean-spirited , irresolute , from all of which a prince should *guard* *himself* as from a rock ; and he should endeavour to show in his actions greatness , courage , gravity , and fortitude ; and in his private dealings with his subjects let him show that his judgments are irrevocable , and *maintain* *himself* in such reputation that no one can hope either to deceive him or to get round him .
But concerning his subjects , when affairs outside are disturbed he has only to fear that they will conspire secretly , from which a prince can easily *secure* *himself* by avoiding being hated and despised , and by keeping the people satisfied with him , which it is most necessary for him to accomplish , as I said above at length .
And as experience shows , many have been the conspiracies , but few have been successful ; because he who conspires can not act alone , nor can he take a companion except from those whom he believes to be malcontents , and as soon as you have opened your mind to a malcontent you have given him the material with which to *content* *himself* , for by denouncing you he can look for every advantage ; so that , seeing the gain from this course to be assured , and seeing the other to be doubtful and full of dangers , he must be a very rare friend , or a thoroughly obstinate enemy of the prince , to keep faith with you .
And further , I consider that a prince ought to cherish the nobles , but not so as to *make* *himself* hated by the people .
And here it should be noted that hatred is acquired as much by good works as by bad ones , therefore , as I said before , a prince wishing to keep his state is very often forced to do evil ; for when that body is corrupt whom you think you have need of to *maintain* *yourself* - it may be either the people or the soldiers or the nobles - you have to submit to its humours and to gratify them , and then good works will do you harm .
But let us come to Alexander , who was a man of such great goodness , that among the other praises which are accorded him is this , that in the fourteen years he held the empire no one was ever put to death by him unjudged ; nevertheless , being considered effeminate and a man who *allowed* *himself* to be governed by his mother , he became despised , the army conspired against him , and murdered him .
After this there remained for Severus , who wished to make *himself* *master* of the whole empire , two difficulties ; one in Asia , where Niger , head of the Asiatic army , had *caused* *himself* to be proclaimed emperor ; the other in the west where Albinus was , who also aspired to the throne .
And as he considered it dangerous to *declare* *himself* hostile to both , he decided to attack Niger and to deceive Albinus .
But let us come to Commodus , to whom it should have been very easy to hold the empire , for , being the son of Marcus , he had inherited it , and he had only to follow in the footsteps of his father to please his people and soldiers ; but , being by nature cruel and brutal , he *gave* *himself* up to amusing the soldiers and corrupting them , so that he might indulge his rapacity upon the people ; on the other hand , not maintaining his dignity , often descending to the theatre to compete with gladiators , and doing other vile things , little worthy of the imperial majesty , he fell into contempt with the soldiers , and being hated by one party and despised by the other , he was conspired against and was killed .
1 . Some princes , so as to hold securely the state , have disarmed their subjects ; others have kept their subject towns distracted by factions ; others have fostered enmities against themselves ; others have *laid* *themselves* out to gain over those whom they distrusted in the beginning of their governments ; some have built fortresses ; some have overthrown and destroyed them .
But on this question one can not speak generally , for it varies so much with the individual ; I will only say this , that those men who at the commencement of a princedom have been hostile , if they are of a description to need assistance to *support* *themselves* , can always be gained over with the greatest ease , and they will be tightly held to serve the prince with fidelity , inasmuch as they know it to be very necessary for them to cancel by deeds the bad impression which he had formed of them ; and thus the prince always extracts more profit from them than from those who , serving him in too much security , may neglect his affairs .
CHAPTER XXI - HOW A PRINCE SHOULD *CONDUCT* *HIMSELF* SO AS TO GAIN RENOWN
Further , always using religion as a plea , so as to undertake greater schemes , he *devoted* *himself* with pious cruelty to driving out and clearing his kingdom of the Moors ; nor could there be a more admirable example , nor one more rare .
A prince is also respected when he is either a true friend or a downright enemy , that is to say , when , without any reservation , he *declares* *himself* in favour of one party against the other ; which course will always be more advantageous than standing neutral ; because if two of your powerful neighbours come to blows , they are of such a character that , if one of them conquers , you have either to fear him or not .
In either case it will always be more advantageous for you to *declare* *yourself* and to make war strenuously ; because , in the first case , if you do not *declare* *yourself* , you will invariably fall a prey to the conqueror , to the pleasure and satisfaction of him who has been conquered , and you will have no reasons to offer , nor anything to protect or to shelter you .
Thus it will always happen that he who is not your friend will demand your neutrality , whilst he who is your friend will entreat you to *declare* *yourself* with arms .
But when a prince *declares* *himself* gallantly in favour of one side , if the party with whom he allies *himself* *conquers* , although the victor may be powerful and may have him at his mercy , yet he is indebted to him , and there is established a bond of amity ; and men are never so shameless as to become a monument of ingratitude by oppressing you .
But if he with whom you *ally* *yourself* loses , you may be sheltered by him , and whilst he is able he may aid you , and you become companions on a fortune that may rise again .
A prince ought also to *show* *himself* a patron of ability , and to honour the proficient in every art .
Further , he ought to entertain the people with festivals and spectacles at convenient seasons of the year ; and as every city is divided into guilds or into societies , he ought to hold such bodies in esteem , and associate with them sometimes , and *show* *himself* an example of courtesy and liberality ; nevertheless , always maintaining the majesty of his rank , for this he must never consent to abate in anything .
It is that of flatterers , of whom courts are full , because men are so self-complacent in their own affairs , and in a way so deceived in them , that they are preserved with difficulty from this pest , and if they wish to *defend* *themselves* they run the danger of falling into contempt .
With these councillors , separately and collectively , he ought to *carry* *himself* in such a way that each of them should know that , the more freely he shall speak , the more he shall be preferred ; outside of these , he should listen to no one , pursue the thing resolved on , and be steadfast in his resolutions .
Therefore , do not let our princes accuse fortune for the loss of their principalities after so many years ' possession , but rather their own sloth , because in quiet times they never thought there could be a change ( it is a common defect in man not to make any provision in the calm against the tempest ) , and when afterwards the bad times came they thought of flight and not of *defending* *themselves* , and they hoped that the people , disgusted with the insolence of the conquerors , would recall them .
But *confining* *myself* more to the particular , I say that a prince may be seen happy to-day and ruined to-morrow without having shown any change of disposition or character .
Changes in estate also issue from this , for if , to one who *governs* *himself* with caution and patience , times and affairs converge in such a way that his administration is successful , his fortune is made ; but if times and affairs change , he is ruined if he does not change his course of action .
But a man is not often found sufficiently circumspect to know how to *accommodate* *himself* to the change , both because he can not deviate from what nature inclines him to do , and also because , having always prospered by acting in one way , he can not be persuaded that it is well to leave it ; and , therefore , the cautious man , when it is time to turn adventurous , does not know how to do it , hence he is ruined ; but had he changed his conduct with the times fortune would not have changed .
For my part I consider that it is better to be adventurous than cautious , because fortune is a woman , and if you wish to keep her under it is necessary to beat and ill-use her ; and it is seen that she *allows* *herself* to be mastered by the adventurous rather than by those who go to work more coldly .
And although singly they are good , altogether they will be much better when they *find* *themselves* commanded by their prince , honoured by him , and maintained at his expense .
DURING the whole of a dull , dark , and soundless day in the autumn of the year , when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens , I had been passing alone , on horseback , through a singularly dreary tract of country , and at length *found* *myself* , as the shades of the evening drew on , within view of the melancholy House of Usher .
I was aware , however , that his very ancient family had been noted , time out of mind , for a peculiar sensibility of temperament , *displaying* *itself* , through long ages , in many works of exalted art , and manifested , of late , in repeated deeds of munificent yet unobtrusive charity , as well as in a passionate devotion to the intricacies , perhaps even more than to the orthodox and easily recognizable beauties , of musical science .
There can be no doubt that the consciousness of the rapid increase of my superstition - for why should I not so term it ? - served mainly to accelerate the *increase* *itself* .
The room in which I *found* *myself* was very large and lofty .
It was with difficulty that I could *bring* *myself* to admit the identity of the wan being before me with the companion of my early boyhood .
It *displayed* *itself* in a host of unnatural sensations .
Hitherto she had steadily borne up against the pressure of her malady , and had not *betaken* *herself* finally to bed ; but on the closing in of the evening of my arrival at the house , she succumbed ( as her brother told me at night with inexpressible agitation ) to the prostrating power of the destroyer ; and I learned that the glimpse I had obtained of her person would thus probably be the last I should obtain - that the lady , at least while living , would be seen by me no more .
It was , perhaps , the narrow limits to which he thus *confined* *himself* upon the guitar which gave birth , in great measure , to the fantastic character of the performances .
They must have been , and were , in the notes , as well as in the words of his wild fantasias ( for he not unfrequently *accompanied* *himself* with rhymed verbal improvisations ) , the result of that intense mental collectedness and concentration to which I have previously alluded as observable only in particular moments of the highest artificial excitement .
Shaking this off with a gasp and a struggle , I *uplifted* *myself* upon the pillows , and , peering earnestly within the intense darkness of the chamber , hearkened - I know not why , except that an instinctive spirit prompted me - to certain low and indefinite sounds which came , through the pauses of the storm , at long intervals , I knew not whence .
Overpowered by an intense sentiment of horror , unaccountable yet unendurable , I threw on my clothes with haste ( for I felt that I should sleep no more during the night ) , and endeavored to *arouse* *myself* from the pitiable condition into which I had fallen , by pacing rapidly to and fro through the apartment .
Could I have judged , indeed , by the wild overstrained air of vivacity with which he hearkened , or apparently hearkened , to the words of the tale , I might well have *congratulated* *myself* upon the success of my design .
`` And now , the champion , having escaped from the terrible fury of the dragon , *bethinking* *himself* of the brazen shield , and of the breaking up of the enchantment which was upon it , removed the carcass from out of the way before him , and approached valorously over the silver pavement of the castle to where the shield was upon the wall ; which in sooth tarried not for his full coming , but fell down at his feet upon the silver floor , with a mighty great and terrible ringing sound . ''
The storm was still abroad in all its wrath as I *found* *myself* crossing the old causeway .
He could not *forgive* *himself* for that silly smile .
What can I do ? ' he *asked* *himself* in despair , and could find no answer .
He was incapable of self-deception and could not *persuade* *himself* that he repented of his conduct .
' Never mind , sir - things will *shape* *themselves* . '
' *Shape* *themselves* , eh ? '
' To go , or not to go ? ' he *asked* *himself* ; and his inner consciousness answered that he ought not to go : that it could only result in hypocrisy ; that it was impossible to restore their relations because it was impossible to render her attractive and capable of exciting love , or to turn him into an old man incapable of love .
' Nevertheless it will have to be done sooner or later . After all , things ca n't remain as they are , ' he said , trying to *brace* *himself* .
She was trying to do what she had attempted ten times already during those three days , to sort out her own and her children 's clothes to take to her mother 's ; but she could not *bring* *herself* to do it , and said again as she had done after each previous attempt , that things could not remain as they were - that she must do something to punish and humiliate him , and to *revenge* *herself* if only for a small part of the pain he had caused her .
She felt that it was impossible for her to leave ; but still *deceiving* *herself* , she went an sorting the things and pretending that she really would go .
Oblonsky could think calmly of his wife , could hope that ' things would *shape* *themselves* ' as Matthew had said , and could calmly read his paper and drink his coffee , but when he saw her worn , suffering face , and heard her tone , resigned and despairing , he felt a choking sensation . A lump rose to his throat and tears glistened in his eyes .
She wished to go away , but staggered and held on to the back of a chair to *support* *herself* .
She seemed to be trying to *recollect* *herself* , as if she did not know where she was or what she had to do .
Oblonsky sighed , wiped his face , and with soft steps left the room . ' Matthew says `` things will *shape* *themselves* , '' - but how ?
' Well , perhaps things will *shape* *themselves* - `` *shape* *themselves* '' !
When the Report had been read , Oblonsky rose , *stretching* *himself* , and , paying tribute to the Liberalism of the times , took out a cigarette before leaving the Office to go to his private room .
' On the one hand it 's simply playing ! They play at being a parliament , and I am neither young enough nor old enough to *amuse* *myself* with toys .
Levin 's conviction that it was impossible rested on the idea that from her relatives ' point of view he was not a good or suitable match for the delightful Kitty , and that *Kitty* *herself* could not love him .
Of course the mysterious , enchanting Kitty could not love a plain fellow , such as he *considered* *himself* to be , a man so ordinary and undistinguished .
To *justify* *himself* Levin began to relate what used to happen at the Meetings in his district .
' We Russians are always like that . It may be a good trait in us - this capacity to see our own faults - but we overdo it , and *comfort* *ourselves* with sarcasm , which is always ready on our tongues .
Yet skaters appeared quite calmly to gain on her , to catch her up , and even speak to her , and quite independently of her to *amuse* *themselves* enjoying the excellent ice and the fine weather .
He stood up , took off his overcoat , and having *given* *himself* a start on the rough ice near the shelter , glided down to the smooth surface of the lake , increasing and diminishing his speed and shaping his course as if by volition only .
' I do n't feel at all dull , I am very busy , ' he answered , conscious that she was subduing him to her quiet tone , from which - as had happened at the beginning of the winter - he would not be able to *free* *himself* .
' Do n't *hurt* *yourself* - it needs practice ! '
Levin went up the path as far back as he could to get up speed , and then slid downwards , *balancing* *himself* with his arms in this unaccustomed movement .
Levin was considering what the change in Kitty 's face meant now ; *persuading* *himself* that there was hope , now in despair , seeing clearly that such hope was madness ; but yet feeling an altogether different being from what he had been before her smile and the words ' Au revoir ! '
WHEN THEY ENTERED THE RESTAURANT Levin could not help noticing something peculiar in his friend 's expression , a kind of suppressed radiance in his face and whole figure . Oblonsky took off his overcoat , and with his hat on one side walked into the dining-room , giving his orders to the Tartar waiters , in their swallow-tail coats , with napkins under their arms , who *attached* *themselves* to him . Bowing right and left to his acquaintances who , here as elsewhere , greeted him joyfully , he passed on to the buffet , drank a glass of vodka and ate a bit of fish as hors-d 'oeuvre , and said something to the painted Frenchwoman , bedecked with ribbons and lace , who sat at a little counter - something that made even this Frenchwoman burst into frank laughter .
The waiter , remembering Oblonsky 's way of calling the items on the French menu by their Russian names , did not repeat the words after him , but afterwards *allowed* *himself* the pleasure of repeating the whole of the order according to the menu : ' Potage printanier , turbot , sauce Beaumarchais , boeuf , poularde  l 'estragon , macdoine de fruits ... ' and immediately , as if moved by springs , he put down the bill of fare in one cardboard cover , and seizing another containing the wine-list held it out to Oblonsky .
' I ca n't help it , ' replied Levin . ' *Put* *yourself* in my place - look at it from a country fellow 's point of view !
Levin obediently *helped* *himself* to sauce , but would not let Oblonsky eat .
That is disgusting , and therefore one ca n't help *feeling* *oneself* unworthy . '
Not only were nearly all the youths that danced at the Moscow balls in love with Kitty , but two serious suitors *presented* *themselves* for her that very first winter : Levin and , immediately after his departure , Count Vronsky .
The Russian way , of employing a professional match-maker , was considered monstrous , and was laughed at by everybody , including the *Princess* *herself* .
And now she was afraid that Vronsky might *content* *himself* with merely flirting with her daughter .
She saw that Kitty was in love with him , but *consoled* *herself* with the thought that Vronsky was an honest man and therefore would not act in such a way .
With her thought of Vronsky was mingled some uneasiness , though he was an extremely well-bred and quiet-mannered man ; a sense of something false , not in him , for he was very simple and kindly , but in herself ; whereas in relation to Levin she *felt* *herself* quite simple and clear .
And now for the first time the matter *presented* *itself* to her in a different and entirely new light .
Only now did she realize that this matter ( with whom she would be happy , who was the man she loved ) did not *concern* *herself* alone , but that in a moment she would have to wound a man she cared for , and to wound him cruelly ...
She was fond of Kitty , and her affection *showed* *itself* as the affection of a married woman for an unmarried one generally does , in a desire to get Kitty married according to her - the Countess 's - own ideal of conjugal bliss ; and she wished to see her married to Vronsky .
Ah the ball ! " - ' And the Prince *imagining* *himself* to be impersonating his wife curtsied at each word . ' And then if we really ruin Kitty 's happiness , if she really gets it into her head ... '
I can recognize a man who has serious intentions - such as Levin - and I can see through a weathercock like that popinjay who only wishes to *amuse* *himself* . '
Marriage had never *presented* *itself* to him as a possibility .
I *feel* *myself* better and purer , I feel I have a heart and that there is much that is good in me .
He is a very nervous man , and does *make* *himself* unpleasant sometimes , that 's true enough ; but on the other hand he is sometimes very charming .
His chest involuntarily expanded and his eyes shone , he *felt* *himself* to be a conqueror .
In the depths of his heart he did not respect his mother and ( though this he never acknowledged to himself ) did not love her , but in accordance with the views of the set he lived in , and as a result of his education , he could not *imagine* *himself* treating her in any way but one altogether submissive and respectful ; the more submissive and respectful he was externally , the less he honoured and loved her in his heart .
It was as if an excess of vitality so filled her whole being that it *betrayed* *itself* against her will , now in her smile , now in the light of her eyes .
' Oh yes , I should have recognized you , especially as I believe your mother and I have talked of nothing but you all the way , ' said she , at last allowing the animation she had been trying to suppress to *reveal* *itself* in a smile . ' But my brother is not here yet . '
*Thrown* *himself* under ... Run over ... ' shouted the passers-by .
She *threw* *herself* on the body . They say he was the sole support of a very large family .
I know they say husbands tell their wives how they have lived , but Steve ... ' She *corrected* *herself* .
' Dolly dearest ! I understand , but do n't *torture* *yourself* .
' All I can say is , ' began Anna , ' I am his sister and I know his character , his capacity for forgetting everything , ' she made a gesture with her hand in front of her forehead , ' that capacity for *letting* *himself* be completely carried away , but on the other hand for completely repenting .
' Well , of course ... ' Dolly put in quickly as if saying what she had often *herself* *thought* , ' or else it would not be forgiveness .
' Well , then , if I have to go , I shall *console* *myself* with the reflection that it will give you pleasure ... Grisha , please do n't pull so hard , it is all in a tangle already , ' she said , arranging a loose lock of hair with which Grisha was playing .
There 's Miss Hull calling you to tea , ' she went on , *disengaging* *herself* from the children and dispatching them to the dining-room .
For toward ten o 'clock - the time when she generally said good-night to her son and often put him to *bed* *herself* before going to a ball - she felt sad at being so far from him , and , whatever they talked about , her thoughts kept returning to her curly-headed Serezha .
She was not a girl just come out , for whom all faces at a ball blend into one fairy-like vision ; nor was she a girl who had been dragged from ball to ball till all the faces were familiar to dullness . She was between those two extremes , and though elated was able to *control* *herself* sufficiently to be observant .
She noticed that Anna was elated with success , a feeling Kitty *herself* *knew* so well .
Every time he turned toward Anna he slightly bowed his head as if he wished to fall down before her , and in his eyes there was an expression of submission and fear . ' I do not wish to offend , ' his every look seemed to say , ' I only wish to *save* *myself* , but I do not know how . '
And , strange to say , though they were talking about Ivan Ivanich , who *made* *himself* so ridiculous with his French , and how Miss Eletskaya could have made a better match , yet these words were important for them and they felt this as well as Kitty .
She *felt* *herself* quite broken-hearted .
' Oh ! it 's all the same to me ! ' replied Kitty . No one but *herself* *understood* her situation , because no one knew that she had only a few days ago refused a man whom she perhaps loved , and refused him because she trusted another .
She felt *herself* *crushed* and her face expressed it .
If I had any pride , I should not have put myself into such a position . ' And he pictured to himself Vronsky , happy , kind , clever , calm , and certainly never *placing* *himself* in such a terrible position as he , Levin , had been in that evening .
He recalled how despite the ridicule of his fellow-students his brother had lived like a monk while at the University and for a year after , strictly observing all the religious rites , attending service , fasting , avoiding all pleasures and especially women ; and then how he suddenly broke loose , became intimate with the vilest people and *gave* *himself* up to unbridled debauchery .
He kept glancing at his brother 's sickly , consumptive face , and felt more and more sorry for him , nor could he *force* *himself* to pay attention to what Nicholas was telling him about the Association .
All the profits on their labour , by which they might better their condition , *give* *themselves* some leisure , and consequently gain some education , all this surplus value is taken away by the capitalists .
And our society has so *shaped* *itself* that the more the people work the richer the merchants and landowners will become , while the people will remain beasts of burden for ever .
Tell me what you are doing , ' he continued , greedily chewing a crust of bread and *filling* *himself* another glass . ' How are you getting on ? '
He felt this at the mere sight of Ignat and the horses ; but when he had put on the sheepskin coat that had been brought for him and , well wrapped up , had *seated* *himself* in the sledge and started homeward , turning over in his mind the orders he would give about the work on the estate , and as he watched the side horse ( once a saddle-horse that had been overridden , a spirited animal from the Don ) , he saw what had befallen him in quite a different light .
Secondly , he would never again *allow* *himself* to be carried away by passion , the repulsive memory of which had so tormented him when he was making up his mind to propose .
Then , remembering his brother Nicholas , he determined that he would never *allow* *himself* to forget him again , but would watch over him , keep him in sight , and be ready to help when things went hard with him .
He considered an entire change of economic conditions nonsense ; but he had always felt the injustice of his superfluities compared with the peasant 's poverty , and now decided , in order to *feel* *himself* quite justified , that though he had always worked hard and lived simply , he would in future work still more and *allow* *himself* still less luxury .
Laska , a setter bitch , ran out too , almost throwing Kuzma off his feet , and whined and *rubbed* *herself* against Levin 's knees , jumping up and wishing but not daring to put her front paws on his chest .
And obeying the latter voice he went to the corner where two thirty-six pound dumb-bells lay and began doing gymnastic exercises with them to *invigorate* *himself* .
He felt that in the depth of his soul something was settling down , adjusting and *composing* *itself* .
He patted her a little , and she *curled* *herself* up at his feet with her head on her outstretched hind paw .
This is a confession of something that oppresses me , and I want to make it to you , ' said Anna , determinedly *throwing* *herself* back in an arm-chair and looking straight into Dolly 's eyes .
' Oh no , no , I am not Steve , ' she said frowning . ' The reason I have told you is that I do not even for a moment *allow* *myself* to *distrust* *myself* . '
But at the moment when she uttered these words she knew they were untrue : she not only *distrusted* *herself* but was agitated by the thought of Vronsky , and was leaving sooner than she had intended only that she might not meet him again .
She was too eager to *live* *herself* .
But there was nothing to be done , so she *forced* *herself* to read , while her little hand toyed with the smooth paper-knife .
' What am I ashamed of ? ' she *asked* *herself* with indignant surprise .
She had *assured* *herself* more than once during those last few days , and again a moment ago , that Vronsky in relation to her was only one of the hundreds of everlastingly identical young men she met everywhere , and that she would never *allow* *herself* to give him a thought ; yet now , at the first moment of seeing him again , she was seized by a feeling of joyful pride .
He *felt* *himself* a king , not because he believed that he had made an impression on Anna - he did not yet believe that - but because the impression she had made on him filled him with happiness and pride .
By *addressing* *himself* thus to his wife he conveyed to Vronsky his wish to be alone with her , and turning to Vronsky he touched his hat .
' You insist too much on your devotion , for me to value it greatly , ' she replied in the same playful tone , while she involuntarily listened to the sound of Vronsky 's footsteps following them . ' But what does he matter to me ? ' she *asked* *herself* , and began inquiring of her husband how Serezha had got on during her absence .
To speak of it would be to give it an importance that does not belong to it . ' She remembered how she had once told her husband about one of his subordinates who very nearly made her a declaration , and how Karenin had answered that every woman living in Society was liable to such things , but that he had full confidence in her tact and would never *degrade* *himself* and her by being jealous .
Altogether , when , after her visitors had left , Anna *busied* *herself* with her toilet , she was much vexed .
Completely to regain her composure , she went to the nursery and spent the evening with her son . She put him to *bed* *herself* , made the sign of the cross over him , and tucked him up .
' Here you are at last ! ' she said , holding out her hand to him . He kissed it , and *seated* *himself* beside her .
' The *master* *himself* ! Baroness , some coffee for him out of the new coffee-pot ...
But there was another sort of people : the real people to which all his set belonged , who had above all to be well-bred , generous , bold , gay , and to *abandon* *themselves* unblushingly to all their passions and laugh at everything else .
' Yes , I am , ' replied Vronsky , *rubbing* *himself* with a bath-towel .
Having heard all the news , Vronsky , with the help of his valet , put on his uniform and went to *report* *himself* .
' But you know in these cases there is always some hidden moral cause , ' the family doctor *allowed* *himself* to remark with a subtle smile .
But she did not want to pain her mother , especially as her mother *considered* *herself* to blame .
Such a discovery could now only deprive her of her accustomed family life , and she *let* *herself* be deceived , despising him , and especially herself , for such weakness .
ON ENTERING KITTY 'S LITTLE SNUGGERY , a pretty pink room , decorated with vieux saxe figures - as fresh , rosy and gay as *Kitty* *herself* had been two months before , Dolly remembered how light-heartedly and with what love they two had arranged that room the year before .
' I am going home now and shall have to *shut* *myself* up , and you wo n't be able to come to me , ' said Dolly , sitting down beside her sister . ' I want to talk to you . '
Dolly knew her sister 's habit of fingering something when she was heated , and she knew how apt Kitty was to *forget* *herself* when in a passion and to say much that was unpleasant and had better not have been said . She tried to pacify her ; but it was too late .
I have enough pride never to *let* *myself* love a man who does not love me . '
And the sweet tear-stained face *hid* *itself* in the folds of Dolly 's dress .
Formerly to go anywhere in a ball-dress was just a pleasure to me . I used to *like* *myself* in it ; but now I feel ashamed and uncomfortable .
She met him most frequently at Betsy 's , who was a *Vronsky* *herself* and his cousin .
At first Anna sincerely believed that she was displeased with him for *allowing* *himself* to persecute her ; but soon after her return from Moscow , having gone to a party where she expected to meet him but to which he did not come , she clearly realized , by the sadness that overcame her , that she had been *deceiving* *herself* and that his persecution supplied the whole interest of her life .
*Wenden* *himself* , having returned from his office and hearing the front-door bell and voices , went out , saw the tipsy officers with the letter , and hustled them out .
She had scarcely time to go to her dressing-room , put powder on her long pale face and rub it off again , *smarten* *herself* up , and order tea to be served in the big drawing-room , before one carriage after another began to arrive at the door of her immense house on the Great Morskaya .
' I wonder that she , with her common sense - for she is not stupid - does not see how ridiculous she *makes* *herself* . '
The Princess Myagkaya did not understand why her words had such an effect , but was aware that they did and *availed* *herself* of it .
' But I do n't even think of blaming her ! ' Anna 's friend said , *justifying* *herself* .
The Princess was characterizing Karenin , ' replied the ambassador 's wife with a smile , *seating* *herself* at the table .
Anna entered the room *holding* *herself* , as usual , very erect , and without changing the direction of her eyes approached her hostess , walking with that quick , firm yet light step which distinguished her from other Society women . She shook hands ; smilingly , and with the same smile looked round at Vronsky .
' Yes , but how often the happiness of marriages founded on reason crumbles to dust because the very passion that was disregarded *makes* *itself* felt later , ' said Vronsky .
He saw that she was saying what she *forced* *herself* to utter and not what she wished to say .
When he reached home he went to his study as usual , *seated* *himself* in his easy-chair , and opened a book on the Papacy at the place where his paper-knife was inserted . He read till one o 'clock as was his wont , only now and then rubbing his high forehead and jerking his head as if driving something away .
Why he should have confidence - that is , a full conviction that his young wife would always love him - he never *asked* *himself* ; but he felt no distrust , and therefore had confidence , and *assured* *himself* that it was right to have it .
Karenin was being confronted with life - with the possibility of his wife 's loving somebody else , and this seemed stupid and incomprehensible to him , because it was *life* *itself* .
What decision ? ' he *asked* *himself* in the drawing-room , and could find no answer . ' But after all , ' he reflected before turning into her room , ' what is it that has happened ?
Besides ... to be jealous is to *degrade* *myself* and her , ' he said to himself as he entered her sitting-room .
And again he repeated to himself in the dining-room : ' Yes , it is necessary to decide , and stop it , and express my opinion ... ' And again in the drawing-room , at the turn into her room , he *asked* *himself* ' Decide what ? ' and then , ' What has happened ? ' and he replied ' Nothing , ' and remembered that jealousy is a feeling which insults a wife ; but in the drawing-room he came again to the conviction that something had happened .
To *put* *himself* in thought and feeling into another being was a mental action foreign to Karenin .
Thinking it over , he regretted having to spend his time and powers of mind on inconspicuous domestic affairs ; but nevertheless , clearly and definitely , as though it were an official report , the form and sequence of the speech he had to make *shaped* *itself* in his mind . ' I must make the following quite clear : First , the importance of public opinion and propriety ; secondly , the religious meaning of marriage ; thirdly , if necessary , I must refer to the harm that may result to our son ; fourthly , allude to her own unhappiness . '
What about ? ' she asked , *seating* *herself* . ' Well , let us have a talk , if it is so important .
She felt *herself* *clothed* in an impenetrable armour of lies and that some unseen power was helping and supporting her .
As you know , I consider jealousy an insulting and degrading feeling and will never *allow* *myself* to be guided by it ; but there are certain laws of propriety which one can not disregard with impunity .
For a long time she lay still with wide-open eyes , the brightness of which it seemed to her she could *herself* *see* in the darkness .
Karenin , strong as he was in his official activities , felt *himself* *powerless* here .
Each time he began to think about it , he felt that he must try again , that by kindness , tenderness , and persuasion there was still a hope of saving her and obliging her to *bethink* *herself* . Every day he *prepared* *himself* to have a talk with her .
She felt so guilty , so much to blame , that it only remained for her to *humble* *herself* and ask to be forgiven ; but she had no one in the world now except him , so that even her prayer for forgiveness was addressed to him .
The shame she felt at her spiritual nakedness *communicated* *itself* to him .
Then , as the murderer desperately *throws* *himself* on the body , as though with passion , and drags it and hacks it , so Vronsky covered her face and shoulders with kisses . She held his hand and did not move .
At last , as though *mastering* *herself* , she sat up and pushed him away .
WHEN LEVIN FIRST RETURNED FROM MOSCOW , and while he still started and blushed every time he remembered the disgrace of the refusal , he had said to himself , ' I blushed and started like this when I was ploughed in physics and had to remain in the second class ; and in the same way I felt *myself* *lost* when I made a mess of my sister 's affair that had been entrusted to me .
However much he *told* *himself* that he was not at all to blame in that matter , the memory of it , together with other shameful memories , made him start and blush .
I 'll see to *everything* *myself* . '
The further he went the happier he felt and all sorts of plans for his estate , each better than the last , *presented* *themselves* to him : to plant rows of willows with a southern aspect on all the fields , so that the snow should not remain long under them ; to divide the fields , tilling six and keeping three under grass ; to build a new cattle-yard at the further end of the field , to dig a pond , and to make folds for the cattle for manuring purposes .
' Why , it was you who taught us to sow it . The year before last you gave me a bushel of *seed* *yourself* .
But Levin , frowning , pretended not to see the hand , and began taking the snipe out of the game-bag . ' You have been pleased to *amuse* *yourself* with shooting ?
On entering the study Ryabinin looked round by force of habit as though to find the icon , but after finding it he did not *cross* *himself* .
' If you please , the forest is mine , ' he said , rapidly *crossing* *himself* and holding out his hand . ' Take your money , the forest is mine .
An hour later the dealer ; with his coat well lapped over , the hooks of his overcoat carefully fastened , and with the agreement in his pocket , *seated* *himself* in his little cart and drove home .
Levin really was in a bad humour , and in spite of his desire to behave kindly and amiably to his charming guest he could not *master* *himself* .
But Levin did not think all this . He dimly felt that there was something insulting to him in the affair , and was angry not with what had upset him but with everything that *presented* *itself* to him .
Try as Levin would to *control* *himself* , he remained morose and silent .
There was one question he wanted to put to Oblonsky , but could not *bring* *himself* to ask , nor could he find the form to put it in or the moment to ask it .
' Does he , or does he not know that I proposed ? ' thought Levin , looking at him . ' Yes , there is something sly and diplomatic in his face , ' and feeling *himself* *blush* , he gazed in silence straight into Oblonsky 's eyes .
A man whose father crawled up from nothing by intrigues and whose mother has had relations with heaven knows whom ... No , pardon me , I *consider* *myself* and people like me aristocrats : people who can point back to three or four honourable generations of their family , all with a high standard of education ( talent and intelligence are a different matter ) , who have never cringed before anyone , never depended on anyone , but have lived as my father and my grandfather did .
It goes without saying that he spoke to none of them about his love , nor did he *betray* *himself* even in the wildest drinking-bouts ( indeed , he never drank so as to lose all self-control ) . And he silenced any of his thoughtless comrades who tried to hint at the liaison .
On the contrary he needed an occupation and an interest apart from his love , in which to *refresh* *himself* and find rest from the impressions which agitated him too violently .
' What ? *Fortifying* *yourself* for your job ? ' asked the plump officer taking a seat beside him .
And drawing up his blanket he *threw* *himself* back on his pillow . ' Leave me alone , Yashvin ! ' he said angrily to Yashvin , who was pulling the blanket off him .
Let us have a drink together ! Vronsky , will you have a drink ? ' said Petritsky , getting up and *wrapping* *himself* to the arms in a rug of tiger-skin pattern .
The mare 's excitement had *communicated* *itself* to Vronsky . He felt that the blood was rushing to his heart , and that he , like the horse , wished to move and to bite ; it was both frightening and joyful .
And now too , having *given* *himself* a shake , he continued the current of his thoughts :
When he was present neither Vronsky nor Anna *allowed* *themselves* to speak about anything they could not have mentioned to every one or even to hint at things the boy would not have understood .
But , besides this , her physical agitation *communicated* *itself* to him .
Vronsky could not understand how she , with her strong honest nature , could endure this state of deception and not wish to escape from it ; but he did not guess that the chief cause lay in the one word ' son ' which she could not *bring* *herself* to utter .
When she thought about her son and his future relations with the mother who had left his father , she was so terrified at what she had done that she did not reason , but woman-like only tried to *comfort* *herself* with false arguments and words in order that everything should remain as before and that she might forget the dreadful question of what would happen to her son .
' I was just thinking the same , ' he said ; ' wondering how you could sacrifice everything for my sake . I can not *forgive* *myself* for your unhappiness . '
Only after going some five miles did he *recollect* *himself* sufficiently to look at his watch and to realize that it was already half-past five , and that he was late .
' All right ! all right ! ' answered the Englishman . ' Do n't *upset* *yourself* . '
Vronsky once again glanced at the beautiful fascinating shape of the mare , whose whole body was trembling , and *tearing* *himself* with difficulty from this sight he left the shed .
The gelding , planting its feet with effort , reduced the speed of its enormous body , and the guards ' officer , like one waking from deep sleep , looked round and *forced* *himself* to smile .
He ascertained that Anna , Betsy , and his brother 's wife were there , but in order not to *agitate* *himself* , intentionally avoided going near them .
' There are things which should be discussed only by those who are directly interested , and the matter you are *concerning* *yourself* about is one ... '
Answer her , and do n't *upset* *yourself* before the race .
He was calm and important as usual , and standing in front of the horse , was *himself* *holding* both its reins .
The mare had not time to stir before Vronsky with a powerful and agile movement put his foot in the notched steel stirrup and *seated* *himself* lightly but firmly on the creaking leather of the saddle .
In the first moments Vronsky was master neither of *himself* *nor* of his mare .
Gladiator and Diana approached the stream together , and almost at the same moment rose above it and flew across to the other side ; lightly as if on wings Frou-Frou rose up behind them ; but at the moment when Vronsky *felt* *himself* raised in the air he suddenly saw , almost under his horse 's feet , Kusovlev , who was floundering on the other side of the stream with his Diana ( Kusovlev had let go of the reins at the jump and the horse fell throwing him over her head ) .
It was only by *feeling* *himself* nearer to the ground and by the smoothness of the pace that Vronsky knew how much the mare had increased her speed .
*He* *himself* , without knowing it , had made the unpardonable mistake of dropping back in his saddle and pulling up her head .
To his regret he felt that he was *himself* *sound* and unhurt .
He did not *let* *himself* think about this and did not think about it , yet at the bottom of his soul , without admitting it to himself or having any proofs or even suspicions of it , he nevertheless knew certainly that he was a wronged husband , and was therefore profoundly unhappy .
Had Karenin *allowed* *himself* to observe , he would have noticed the timid , confused look which the child cast first at his father and then at his mother .
As a child that has been hurt skips about , making its muscles move in order to dull its pain , so Karenin needed mental activity to smother those thoughts about his wife which in her presence and in the presence of Vronsky , and amid the continual mention of his name , *forced* *themselves* upon him .
' It is exciting , but one can not *tear* *oneself* away , ' said another lady . ' If I had been a Roman , I should never have missed a gladiatorial show . '
In spite of all he had seen , Karenin would still not *allow* *himself* to think of his wife 's real position .
' I asked you once before to *conduct* *yourself* in Society so that evil tongues might be unable to say anything against you .
And *throwing* *herself* back into the corner of the carriage she burst into sobs , hiding her face in her hands .
But for heaven 's sake ' - her look added - ' do not think that I shall *force* *myself* on you . I simply admire and love you . '
Kitty begged her mother more than ever to allow her to make Varenka 's acquaintance , and , much as the Princess disliked appearing to take the first step toward getting acquainted with Madame Stahl , who *allowed* *herself* to be proud of something or other , she made inquiries about Varenka , and , having learnt particulars which allowed her to conclude that though there might be little good there would be no harm in this acquaintance , she herself approached Varenka .
' Allow me to *introduce* *myself* , ' said the Princess with her dignified smile . ' My daughter has fallen in love with you .
She could not *accompany* *herself* but she sang at sight admirably .
' I hate him : and I can not *forgive* *myself* . '
But Varenka , lonely , without relatives or friends , with her sad disillusionment , wishing for nothing and regretting nothing , personified that perfection of which Kitty only *allowed* *herself* to dream .
In Varenka she saw that it was only necessary to *forget* *oneself* and to love others in order to be at peace , happy , and lovely .
Having now clearly understood what was most important , Kitty was not content merely to delight in it , but immediately with her whole soul *devoted* *herself* to this newly revealed life .
Kitty evidently *prided* *herself* on fulfilling the duties of a sister-of-mercy in that family .
' Kitty , have you not had some unpleasantness with the Petrovs ? ' the Princess asked when they were again alone together . ' Why has she stopped sending the children here and *coming* *herself* ? '
' This is my daughter , ' said the Prince , ' allow me to *introduce* *myself* . '
' I do not know whether you will remember me , but I must *recall* *myself* to you in order to thank you for your kindness to my daughter , ' he said , raising his hat and not putting it on again .
She did not renounce all she had learnt , but realized that she had *deceived* *herself* when thinking that she could be what she wished to be .
With his natural kind heart he of course liked human beings more than he disliked them , and naturally the peasants were included ; but he could not like or dislike the people as if they were something apart , because he not only lived among them , his interests closely bound up with theirs , but he *considered* *himself* one of the people and could not find in himself any special qualities or defects which placed him in contrast with them .
But the older he grew and the more intimately he came to know his brother , the oftener the thought occurred to him that the power of working for the general welfare - a power of which he *felt* *himself* entirely destitute - was not a virtue but rather a lack of something : not a lack of kindly honesty and noble desires and tastes , but a lack of the power of living , of what is called heart - the aspiration which makes a man choose one out of all the innumerable paths of life that *present* *themselves* , and desire that alone .
Constantine *felt* *himself* morally cornered , and in consequence became excited and involuntarily betrayed the chief cause of his indifference to social questions .
He *felt* *himself* beaten at every point , yet was sure that his brother had not understood what he had been trying to say , only he did not know why this was so : whether it was because he could not *express* *himself* clearly , or because his brother either could not or did not wish to understand him .
THE PERSONAL MATTER THAT OCCUPIED LEVIN while he was talking with his brother was this . The year before , when visiting a field that was being mown , he had lost his temper with his steward , and to calm himself had used a remedy of his own - he took a scythe from one of the peasants and *himself* *began* mowing .
' And please send my scythe to Titus to be sharpened , and have it taken to the meadow to-morrow : I may go *mowing* *myself* , ' he said , trying to overcome his confusion .
Levin took it and began to *put* *himself* in position .
Levin *straightened* *himself* , sighed , and looked back .
The old man went along *holding* *himself* erect , moving with regular , long steps , turning out his toes , and with a precise and even motion that seemed to cost him no more effort than swinging his arms when walking , he laid the grass in a level high ridge , as if in play or as if the sharp scythe of its own accord whizzed through the juicy grass .
The longer Levin went on mowing , the oftener he experienced those moments of oblivion when his arms no longer seemed to swing the scythe , but the scythe itself his whole body , so conscious and full of life ; and as if by magic , regularly and definitely without a thought being given to it , the work *accomplished* *itself* of its own accord .
He rose , *stretching* *himself* and smiling .
Like all guilty husbands Oblonsky was very anxious about his wife 's comfort , so he looked over the *house* *himself* and gave orders to have everything done that seemed to him necessary .
She consoled her mistress , assuring her that everything would ' *shape* *itself* ( this phrase was her own , and Matthew had learnt it from her ) , and she went to work deliberately and without excitement .
A club was soon established beneath the laburnums , consisting of Matrena Filimonovna , the steward 's wife , the village elder , and the office clerk ; and by means of this club the troubles began gradually to subside , so that in a week 's time everything had really ' *shaped* *itself* . '
Often when watching her children she made great efforts to *convince* *herself* that she was mistaken , that being their mother she was not impartial ; and yet she could not help *telling* *herself* that they were charming children , all the six , each in his or her own way , all of them such as are rarely to be met with ; and she was happy in them and proud of them .
But as she was passing through the dancing-room she saw a scene which filled her heart with such joy that tears came to her eyes and she pardoned the little *culprit* *herself* .
Terenty the coachman tied to a tree the horses , that were swishing their tails to drive away the flies , *stretched* *himself* full length in the shade , pressing down the high grass , and smoked his pipe , while from the bathing-house came the sound of the incessant merry squealing of the children .
One of the young women was watching the governess , who was dressing after all the others , and seeing her put on a third petticoat could not refrain from remarking : ' Look at her ! She 's *wrapping* *herself* up and *wrapping* *herself* up , and has n't got enough round her yet ! ' and the women burst out laughing .
On seeing her he *found* *himself* confronted by just such a picture of family life as his fancy painted .
Arguments about cows being milk-producing machines did not *commend* *themselves* to her , for she imagined that such arguments were calculated only to interfere with farming .
From the Elder 's vague replies to Levin 's questions as to how much hay the largest meadow had yielded , from his haste to apportion the hay without waiting for permission , and from the general tone of the peasant , Levin knew that there was something not quite square about the apportionment , and decided to go and investigate the *matter* *himself* .
When the last of the hay had been apportioned , Levin entrusted the rest of the supervision to the steward and *seated* *himself* on a haycock marked with a willow branch , looking with enjoyment at the meadow teeming with busy people .
How shall I do it ? ' he *asked* *himself* , trying to find expression for what he had been thinking and the feelings he had lived through in that short night .
All his ideas and feelings *separated* *themselves* into three different lines of thought .
And here no clear idea *presented* *itself* to his mind .
How am I to do it ? ' he again *asked* *himself* . , and could find no reply . ' However , I have not slept all night and ca n't render a clear account of myself now , ' he thought , ' but I 'll clear it up later .
I knew it and could see it all along , though I tried out of pity for her to *deceive* *myself* , ' thought he . And it really seemed to him that he had always seen it .
The one thing that preoccupied him was the question of how he could best *divest* *himself* of the mud with which she in her fall had bespattered him : of how to do it in the way which would be most decent , most convenient for him , and consequently fairest , and how he should continue his active , honest , and useful career .
Do I not know beforehand that my friends would never allow me to go so far as to fight a duel , would not allow a statesman whom Russia needs to *expose* *himself* to danger ?
This would happen : I , knowing beforehand that matters would never be allowed to reach a dangerous point , should have challenged a man in order to *cover* *myself* with false glamour .
That would be dishonest , it would be false , it would be *deceiving* *myself* as well as others .
Having considered and rejected the idea of a duel , Karenin turned his thoughts to divorce , the next expedient of which some of the wronged husbands he remembered had *availed* *themselves* .
My decision is as follows : Whatever your actions may have been , I do not *consider* *myself* justified in severing the bonds with which a Higher Power has united us .
If not , you can *yourself* *foresee* what awaits you and your son .
He felt that he now saw more deeply than ever into that complication , and that a capital idea ( he might say that without *flattering* *himself* ) had occurred to him , which would disentangle the whole business , raise him in his official career , upset his enemies , and therefore be of the greatest value to the State .
When Karenin had first taken up his present post he had at once realized this and had wished to stop it ; but , till he *felt* *himself* firmly seated , he knew that it would not be wise to do so as too many interests were involved . Afterwards , being occupied with other matters , he had simply forgotten the business .
After he left her , she *told* *herself* that she was glad she had told him , that now everything would be definite - at any rate , the falsehood and deception would no longer exist .
She *asked* *herself* where she would go when turned out , and found no answer .
When she thought about Vronsky , she imagined that he did not love her , that he was beginning to find her a burden , and that she could not *offer* *herself* to him ; and in consequence she felt hostile toward him .
' Go to Mariette , ' she said to Serezha , who had come out after her , and she began pacing up and down the straw matting of the verandah . ' Is it possible that they could not forgive me or understand that it could not have been otherwise ? ' she *asked* *herself* .
' Besides , what can I write to him ? ' she *asked* *herself* ; and again she blushed with shame .
But the time came when I understood that I could no longer *deceive* *myself* that I am alive , and can not be blamed because God made me so , that I want to love and to live .
He will be in the right , but as for me who am already disgraced he will disgrace me more and more ! ' - `` You can *yourself* *foresee* what awaits you and your son ! '' - ' - she repeated the words of the letter . ' That is a threat that he will take my son from me , and probably their stupid laws will permit it .
Everything *did* *itself* .
That is a question an enfant terrible might put ! ' and Betsy evidently tried to , but could not , *control* *herself* , and again burst out into the infectious kind of laughter peculiar to those who laugh seldom . ' You must ask them ! ' she uttered , while tears of laughter choked her voice .
' How I wish I knew others as I *know* *myself* ! ' said Anna , seriously and thoughtfully . ' Am I worse than others or better ?
' To fall asleep one must have worked , and also to *amuse* *oneself* one must have worked . '
While quite young and still in the Cadet Corps he had experienced the humiliation of a refusal when , having got into debt , he had tried to borrow money , and since then he had never again *allowed* *himself* to get into such a position .
To keep things straight he was in the habit , some five or six times a year according to circumstances , of *secluding* *himself* and clearing up all his affairs .
Consequently Vronsky , who was in the habit of spending 45,000 roubles a year , having this year received only 25,000 , *found* *himself* in difficulties .
He would have let his hand be cut off before he would have *allowed* *himself* by word or hint to insult her , or fail to show her all the respect that a woman can possibly desire .
He had made this proposal , but now , thinking it over , he saw clearly that it would be better to avoid that plan , and yet , while he *told* *himself* so , he feared that this might be wrong .
' When I told her to leave her husband , that meant that she should *unite* *herself* with me .
Having then perforce to assume the role of an independent character , he played it very adroitly and cleverly , as though he had no grudge against anyone , did not *feel* *himself* at all offended , and only wished to be left in peace to *enjoy* *himself* .
He jerked his head backwards and raised his glass , welcoming Vronsky and showing by this gesture that he must first go to the sergeant-major , who was already *stretching* *himself* and puckering his lips for a kiss .
He put down his legs , threw one of them over the other , and placing his arm across it felt its firm calf , where he had hurt it in the fall the day before , and then , *throwing* *himself* back , sighed deeply several times .
He had often before been joyfully conscious of his body , but had never *loved* *himself* , his own body , as he did now .
' Get on , get on ! ' he shouted to the coachman , *thrusting* *himself* out of the window , and taking a three-rouble note from his pocket he put it into the man 's hand as the latter turned round .
But as soon as she had spoken he *straightened* *himself* and his face assumed a proud and stern expression .
And at that instant the thought of what Serpukhovskoy had just been saying to him and of what had occurred to him that morning ( that it was better not to *bind* *himself* ) flashed through his mind , and he knew that he could not pass on the thought to her .
Stremov ( who was also on the Special Committee ) , stung to the quick , began *justifying* *himself* , and the meeting became quite a stormy one . But Karenin triumphed and his motion was carried ; three new Special Committees were formed , and the next day nothing was talked about in a certain Petersburg set but that meeting .
Although while preparing for this interview she had been *teaching* *herself* to despise and blame him , she did not know what to say , and pitied him . There was silence for some time .
Therefore I warn you that our relations must remain what they have been , and that if you *let* *yourself* be compromised I shall be obliged to take measures to safeguard my honour . '
The delight he had felt in the labour itself , occasioned by his having drawn nearer to the peasants , his jealousy of them , his envy of their life , his desire to adopt that kind of life ( which had not been a mere desire that night but a real intention , the details of which he had considered ) , all these things together had so changed his outlook on the working of his estate that he could no longer feel his former interest in the work , or help noticing the unpleasant relation to the labourer on which it was all based . Herds of cattle of an improved breed like Pava , the tilled land ploughed with good ploughs , the nine fields surrounded with willows , the hundreds of acres of deeply manured land , the seed drills and all such things , were splendid if they could be worked by *himself* *alone* or with the help of friends and people in sympathy with him .
Levin had long felt dissatisfied with his relation to the work on his estate . He had seen that the boat was leaking but had not found or looked for the leak , and perhaps had purposely *deceived* *himself* , for had he been disillusioned in that work , he would have had nothing left .
' That 's how it is , sir , ' said the old man , rising ; and after *crossing* *himself* several times he thanked Levin and went out .
Besides , at the bottom of his heart he wanted to *put* *himself* to the test and again to estimate his feelings for the girl .
The Sviyazhskys were friendly with Levin , and therefore he *allowed* *himself* to sound Sviyazhsky and try to get to the very foundation of his philosophy of life , but it was all in vain .
His discomfort *communicated* *itself* to the pretty sister , but the hostess did not seem to notice anything and purposely drew her sister into the conversation .
Sviyazhsky got down the books and *settled* *himself* in a rocking-chair .
Though at present Levin was more interested in agriculture than in anything else , he *asked* *himself* while listening to his host , ' What is there inside him ?
It was true that often when talking to the peasants , and explaining to them the advantages of the plan , Levin felt that they were only listening to the sound of his voice and were quite determined , whatever he might say , not to *let* *themselves* be taken in .
On the thirtieth of September the sun *showed* *itself* in the morning , and , in hopes of fine weather , Levin began seriously preparing for his departure .
An old inn-keeper , into whose house he had gone to *dry* *himself* , evidently approved of Levin 's plan and had offered to join a group to buy cattle .
I feel sure that Franklin felt just as insignificant and *distrusted* *himself* just as I do when he remembered his past .
Having dined , Levin as usual sat down in his easy-chair with a book , and while reading continued to think about his impending journey in connection with the book he was writing . To-day the importance of his work *presented* *itself* to him with especial clearness , and whole paragraphs of their own accord *shaped* *themselves* in his mind , expressing the gist of his thoughts .
When he met Agatha Mikhaylovna he joked with her and questioned her about the other old servants : The news of Parfen Denisich 's death affected him strangely . A look of fear appeared on his face but he immediately *recovered* *himself* .
Communists deny the justice of property , capital , or inheritance , while I do not deny that main stimulus ' ( it was repulsive to Levin to *find* *himself* using such words , but since he had been engrossed in his work he had involuntarily begun using more and more foreign words ) , ' but want only to regulate labour . '
Vronsky had a distinguished appearance , possessed the art of *carrying* *himself* with respectful dignity , and was in the habit of associating with people of that class .
The Prince enjoyed unusually good health even for a Prince , and by means of gymnastics and care of his body had developed his strength to such a degree that , in spite of the excess he indulged in when *amusing* *himself* , he looked as fresh as a big green shining cucumber .
But the chief reason why the Prince 's presence oppressed Vronsky was that he saw *himself* *reflected* in the Prince , and what he saw in that mirror was not flattering to his vanity .
Involuntarily submitting to Anna 's weakness , who , ready in advance to accept anything , *gave* *herself* up to him entirely and expected him to decide her fate , he had long ceased to imagine that their union could end in the way he had then expected .
His ambitious plans had receded to the background , and feeling that he had come out of the range of activity in which everything was definite , he completely *gave* *himself* up to his passion , and that passion bound him closer and closer to her .
These fits of jealousy which had lately begun to *repeat* *themselves* more and more frequently , horrified him and , however much he tried to hide the fact , they made him feel colder toward her , although he knew that the jealousy was caused by love for him .
How often he had *told* *himself* that to be loved by her was happiness ! and now that she loved him , as only a woman can for whom love outweighs all else that is good in life , he was much further from happiness than when he had followed her from Moscow .
Then he *thought* *himself* unhappy , but happiness was all in the future ; now he felt that the best happiness was already in the past .
And in my horror I tried to wake , but I woke still in a dream and began *asking* *myself* what it could mean , and Korney says to me : `` You will die in childbed , in childbed , ma 'am ... ''
And for the first time she felt for him and *put* *herself* for an instant in his place , and was sorry for him .
' He will be here in a moment , ' said the assistant , and in fact , a minute or two later , in the doorway appeared the long figure of an elderly jurisconsult who had been conferring with the lawyer , followed by the *lawyer* *himself* .
' Wo n't you take a seat ? ' He pointed to a chair beside a writing-table covered with papers , and *himself* *took* the principal seat , rubbing his little hands with their short fingers covered with white hair and bending his head to one side .
I should not venture so to *express* *myself* were I talking to a man of undeveloped mind , ' said the lawyer , ' but I expect it is comprehensible to you . '
The lawyer bowed deferentially , let his client pass out , and being left alone *abandoned* *himself* to his happy mood .
He announced , to the surprise of the Committee , that he would ask to be allowed to go and investigate the *matter* *himself* , and having received permission he started for the distant Provinces .
From the theatre Oblonsky went to the market , and *himself* *selected* the fish and asparagus for dinner ; and at noon he was already at Dusseaux 's Hotel , where he had to call on three people who , fortunately for him , had all put up at the same place . These were : Levin , who had only just returned from abroad ; a newly-appointed superior official who was making a tour of inspection in Moscow ; and Karenin , his brother-in-law , whom he wanted to secure for dinner .
Besides these he meant to ask the well-known crank and enthusiast Pestsov , a Liberal and a great talker , a musician and historian , and the dearest of fifty-year-old boys , who would serve as sauce or condiment to Koznyshev and Karenin - while *he* *himself* , Oblonsky , would stir them all up and set them by the ears .
In the depths of his soul he had felt sure that he should meet her that evening , but to maintain his freedom of thought he had tried to *assure* *himself* that he did not know it .
She was filled with joy , and that joy made her feel so confused that for a moment when , as he was approaching the hostess , he again glanced at her , *Kitty* *herself* , he , and Dolly all thought she would not be able to *control* *herself* but would burst into tears .
' I expect great strength is needed for bear-hunting , ' said Karenin , who had the vaguest notions about sport , as he *helped* *himself* to cheese and broke his slice of bread , cut as fine as a cobweb .
He *felt* *himself* at a height that made him giddy , and there , somewhere far below , were all these good excellent Karenins , Oblonskys , and the rest of the world .
' I am not expressing my opinion of either kind of education , ' replied Koznyshev , smiling at him condescendingly as at a child and holding out his glass . ' All I say is that both sides have weighty arguments in their favour , ' he continued *addressing* *himself* to Karenin .
Turovtsyn burst into loud laughter , and Koznyshev felt sorry he had not made that *remark* *himself* .
' Oh yes , an Englishman on board ship did once nurse his baby , ' said the old Prince , *allowing* *himself* this indelicacy in his daughters ' presence .
And with a kindly smile on his moist and rosy lips , he went on *addressing* *himself* chiefly to Karenin , the principal guest . ' Vasya Pryachnikov , as I was told to-day , has fought a duel with Kvitsky and killed him . '
He again made an attempt to draw his brother-in-law away , but Karenin *himself* *asked* with interest :
Dolly was firmly convinced of Anna 's innocence , and felt *herself* *growing* pale and her lips trembling from anger with this cold , unfeeling man who so calmly intended to ruin her innocent friend .
' It is difficult to make a mistake when a *wife* *herself* announces to her husband that eight years of married life and a son have all been an error , and that she wants to begin life from the beginning again , ' he said crossly , sniffing .
He *gave* *himself* a shake and began to speak in a loud and piercing voice .
Every one has trouble enough of his own ! ' And having *got* *himself* under control , Karenin quietly rose , said good-bye , and went away .
But before he had finished writing she read it under his hand , finished the *sentence* *herself* , and wrote the answer : ' Yes . '
They arrived at the Council , and Levin listened to the secretary haltingly reading an official report which he evidently did not *understand* *himself* , but from his face Levin saw what a nice , kind , and splendid fellow he was .
She had done everything she could - she had run up to him and *given* *herself* entirely , shyly , and joyfully .
She had *prepared* *herself* to meet him alone , and had rejoiced at the idea , yet had felt timid and bashful and had not known what she would do .
Without thinking or *asking* *herself* what next , she had come to him and acted as she had .
THE PRINCESS SAT IN HER ARMCHAIR silently smiling , and the Prince *seated* *himself* beside her .
' Well , you see , I do n't know at all ; I only expressed my wish , ' he said , to *excuse* *himself* .
He had now *mastered* *himself* and was able to speak , and there was much he had to say to her ; but what he said was not at all what he had intended .
He knew that between him and her there could and should be nothing secret , and therefore he decided that it was his duty , but he had not considered how the confession might affect her : he had not *put* *himself* in her place .
How was it they did not see that by giving him that post they were *ruining* *themselves* and their own prestige ?
Vronsky went away , but came again in the morning to inquire . Karenin met him in the ante-room and said : ' Remain here : she may ask for you , ' and *himself* *showed* him into Anna 's boudoir .
He felt ashamed , humiliated , guilty , and deprived of the possibility of *cleansing* *himself* from his degradation .
He felt *himself* *knocked* quite out of the rut along which he had hitherto trodden so proudly and so lightly .
Fancies , memories , and most strange thoughts followed one another with extreme rapidity and clearness : now he *saw* *himself* pouring out medicine for the patient and overfilling the spoon , then he saw the midwife 's white hands , or Karenin 's curious pose as he knelt on the floor by her bedside .
He stretched out his legs and again *threw* *himself* upon the sofa , in the same position as before , and shut his eyes .
' What is this ? Am I going mad ? ' he *asked* *himself* .
What else makes people go mad ? What makes them *shoot* *themselves* ? ' he replied to his own thought ; and opening his eyes he was surprised to see , close to his head , an embroidered cushion worked by Varya , his brother 's wife .
He rose from the sofa , took off his coat , loosened the strap , and , baring his shaggy chest to breathe more freely , walked across the room . ' That 's how one goes mad , ' he said again , ' and how one *shoots* *oneself* so as not to be ashamed , ' he concluded slowly .
He wished to *steady* *himself* by the table , dropped the revolver , reeled , and sat down on the floor , looking about him in astonishment .
He made an effort and understood that he was on the floor , and , seeing blood on the tiger-skin and on his hand , realized that he had tried to *shoot* *himself* .
In that smile also Karenin thought he *saw* *himself* and his position ridiculed .
He was vexed with his wife for not troubling about the charming baby , felt disinclined to go in and see her while in that frame of mind , and also disinclined to meet the Princess Betsy ; but his wife might think it strange if he did not come in as usual , and so he *mastered* *himself* and went to her bedroom .
' Yes , but you ca n't but wish to say good-bye to a man who tried to *shoot* *himself* for your sake ... '
Anna suddenly interrupted him , with an irritation she could not repress . ' No need whatever , ' she thought , ' for a man to come and take leave of a woman he loves , for whose sake he wanted to die and has *ruined* *himself* , a woman who can not live without him !
She was agitatedly toying with the tassels of her dressing-gown , glancing at him with that tormenting feeling of physical repulsion for which she *blamed* *herself* , but which she could not overcome .
' Forgive me , I am upset ! I am unjust , ' she went on , *controlling* *herself* .
' No , it ca n't go on like that , ' he *told* *himself* with conviction after leaving his wife .
You should *rouse* *yourself* , and look life straight in the face .
No one else in his place , having to deal with such despair , would have *permitted* *himself* to smile , for a smile would have appeared callous . But in his smile there was so much kindness and almost feminine tenderness that it was not offensive , but soothing and pacifying .
I feel that I am flying headlong over some precipice but must not even try to *save* *myself* .
Hard as it was for me to *assure* *myself* of this , I see that it is so , and there is no help for it .
I *submit* *myself* entirely to your wishes and sense of justice . '
' I am afraid she does not understand her *position* *herself* . She is no judge of it , ' replied Oblonsky , growing more composed .
To agree to a divorce - to give her her freedom - would mean , as he looked at it , to *deprive* *himself* of the only thing that bound him to life , the children he loved , and to deprive her of the last support on the path of virtue and cast her to perdition .
' I am not delirious ... Please arrange so that no one shall say that I *shot* *myself* on purpose . '
Despite these words and that smile , which greatly perturbed Varya , when the inflammation left him and he became convalescent he felt that he had *rid* *himself* entirely of one part of his grief .
That now , having atoned for his guilt toward her husband , he would be obliged to give her up and never *place* *himself* between her with her remorse and her husband , was clear to his mind ; but he could not eradicate from his heart a regret for the loss of her love - could not efface from his memory the moments of happiness he had known with her , moments he had valued so lightly , but the image of which with all their charm pursued him still .
His wound was quite healed and he went about making preparations for his journey to Tashkend . ' Only to see her once more , and then to *bury* *myself* , to die ! ' he thought , as he was making a round of farewell calls , and he expressed this thought to Betsy .
Next day Betsy *herself* *came* and announced that she had received , through Oblonsky , the definite news that Karenin consented to a divorce and that therefore Vronsky might see Anna .
Anna had *prepared* *herself* for this meeting and had thought about what she would say to him ; but she had no time to say any of it , seized by his passion .
His passion *communicated* *itself* to her .
But Oblonsky arranged that too . Levin began to *prepare* *himself* .
Again ' Lordvmercypons ! ' thought he , *crossing* *himself* , bowing , and watching the movements of the bowing deacon 's flexible back . ' Then she took my hand and examined the lines and said , `` You have a splendid hand ! '' and he glanced at the deacon 's stumpy hand and at his own .
When he was alone , Levin , thinking over the remarks of the three bachelors , once more *asked* *himself* whether there was in his soul any of that regret for his freedom that they had been speaking about .
Supposing she does not *herself* *know* what she is doing ? ' he *asked* *himself* . ' She might *bethink* *herself* and only when she is already married find out that she does not and never could love me ... '
Three minutes later Levin , not looking at the clock to avoid *upsetting* *himself* still more , ran as fast as he could down the corridor .
On the day when , in the ballroom of the house in Arbat Street , she in her brown dress had gone up to him and silently *plighted* *herself* to him , on that day and in that hour a complete rupture seemed to have taken place within her soul between her former life and this other new and entirely unknown life - although in fact the old life still went on .
' They say that one who has been best man more than ten times never marries , and I wanted to be one for the tenth time to *make* *myself* safe , but was too late , ' Count Sinyavin was saying to the pretty young Princess Charskaya , who had designs on him .
After the usual questions of whether they wished to be married and whether they had *promised* *themselves* to others , and their answers , which sounded strange to themselves , the second part of the service began .
Vronsky would never have thought he could be so pleased to see Golenishchev , but probably he was *himself* *unaware* how bored he was .
During the three months he had spent abroad with Anna , Vronsky when coming across new people had always *asked* *himself* how the new person would be likely to regard his relations with Anna , and in most cases he had found that the men he met understood it in the ' right ' way .
At bottom , those who in Vronsky 's opinion understood it the ' right ' way did not understand it in any special way , but behaved in general as well-bred persons do with regard to all the complicated and unanswerable problems which surround life on every side : they *conducted* *themselves* properly , avoiding insinuations and inconvenient questions .
What most displeased him was that Golenishchev , a man belonging to good Society , should *put* *himself* an the same level with certain scribblers who irritated him and made him angry .
With an effort Golenishchev *recollected* *himself* , but he was at first dejected and morose . Anna however , who at that time was amiably disposed to every one , soon revived him by her simple and cheerful behaviour .
She was not conscious of degradation . With the tact they both possessed , and by avoiding Russian ladies abroad , the two never *placed* *themselves* in a false position and always met people who pretended to understand their mutual relations much better than they themselves understood them .
Formerly , ' Golenishchev went on , either not noticing or not wishing to notice that both Anna and Vronsky wanted to speak , ' formerly a freethinker was a man brought up with ideas of religion , law , and morality , *who* *himself* , through struggle and pain , had attained freedom of thought ; hut now a new type of born freethinkers has appeared . These grow up without so much as hearing that there used to be laws of morality and religion , and that there was once authority in these things ; they grow up simply with the idea of negation - that is , as heathens .
Golenishchev *pulled* *himself* up and unwillingly agreed , but as the artist lived in a distant part of the town they decided to hire a carriage .
' Shut up , for heaven 's sake ! ' cried Mikhaylov with tears in his voice , stopping his ears with his hands as he went into his workroom behind a partition and locked the door behind him . ' What a duffer ! ' he muttered to himself as he *seated* *himself* at the table , and having opened a portfolio he at once set to work with particular ardour at an unfinished drawing .
He always attributed to those judges a better understanding than his own , and always expected to hear from them something he *had* *himself* not noticed in his work , often fancying that in their criticisms he had really found that something .
He was *himself* *unconscious* that as he approached them he seized and absorbed this impression , just as he had retained the tobacconist 's chin and hidden it away where he could find it when it was wanted .
And the most experienced and technical painter could never paint anything by means of mechanical skill alone , if the outline of the subject-matter did not first *reveal* *itself* to his mind .
At length , *tearing* *himself* away from it regretfully , he let the sheet fall over the picture and went home , tired but happy .
The same thing happened to him as to Golenishchev , who , feeling that he had nothing to express , continually *deceived* *himself* by saying that his thought had not yet ripened and that he was bringing it to maturity and preparing materials .
But Golenishchev was embittered and tormented by it , while Vronsky could not deceive and *torment* *himself* , and above all could not become embittered .
At every step he took he felt as a man would feel who , after admiring the smooth happy motion of a little boat upon the water , had *himself* *got* into the boat .
Without *herself* *knowing* why or wherefore , the management of the house attracted her irresistibly .
Levin had never thought it possible that between him and his wife there could ever be any but tender , respectful , and loving relations , and yet from the very beginning they had quarrelled : she had said he did not love her , but only *loved* *himself* , and began to cry and wave her arms .
For a moment he felt like a man who , receiving a blow from behind , angrily and revengefully turns round to find his assailant and realizes that he has accidentally *knocked* *himself* , that there is no one to be angry with and that he must endure and try to still the pain .
His natural feelings prompted him to *justify* *himself* and prove that she was in the wrong ; but to prove her in the wrong would mean irritating her still more , and widening the breach which was the cause of all the trouble .
To remain under so unjust an accusation was painful , but to *justify* *himself* and hurt her would be still worse .
In his heart he blamed her , but he did not understand that she was *preparing* *herself* for a period of activity which was inevitably coming , when at one and the same time she would be her husband 's wife , the mistress of the house , and a bearer , nurturer , and educator of her children .
He did not understand that , but she knew it instinctively ; and while getting ready for her gigantic task she did not *reproach* *herself* for the moments of careless and happy love that she now enjoyed while building her nest for the future .
Levin blushed with shame and vexation at his wife for having *placed* *herself* and him in this awkward position ; but Mary Nikolavna blushed still more .
He had expected to feel the same sorrow at the loss of a loved brother and the same horror of death he had then experienced , but to a greater degree , and had *prepared* *himself* for all this ; but what he found was quite different .
Taking advantage of the first moment of silence , Levin got up , wishing to *free* *himself* if only for a few minutes from his painful sensations , and said he would fetch his wife .
She sent for the doctor , sent to the chemist 's , made the maid she had brought with her help Mary Nikolavna sweep , dust , and wash ; and *herself* *washed* and scrubbed some articles and spread something under the blanket . At her command things were brought in and taken out of the sick-room .
The *invalid* *himself* , washed and with his hair brushed , lay between clean sheets in a clean shirt , its white collar round his abnormally thin neck , gazing with a new look of hope at Kitty and not taking his eyes off her .
He thought of the Gospel text not because he *considered* *himself* wise - he did not - but because he could not help knowing that he was more intelligent than his wife and Agatha Mikhaylovna ; he could not help knowing that when he thought about death he thought with all the powers of his soul .
He said , *addressing* *himself* to God , ' If Thou dost exist , heal this man ( such things have often happened ) , and Thou wilt save both him and me ! '
But you and I can not *deceive* *ourselves* like that !
Even the memories , impressions , and thoughts , within his body now aroused in him the same sort of repulsion as the *body* *itself* .
Those about him felt this , and unconsciously did not *permit* *themselves* either to move freely , talk or express their own wishes in his presence .
The prayers were not yet ended when the dying man *stretched* *himself* ; sighed and opened his eyes .
Scarcely had the unexplained mystery of death been enacted before his eyes when another mystery just as inexplicable *presented* *itself* , calling to love and life .
FROM THE MOMENT THAT KARENIN UNDERSTOOD from his conversations with Betsy and Oblonsky that all that was asked of him was that he should leave his wife in peace and not trouble her with his presence and that his *wife* *herself* wished this , he felt so lost that he could decide nothing for himself , did not know what he now wanted , and having *placed* *himself* in the hands of those who with so much pleasure *busied* *themselves* with his affairs , he consented to everything .
Had his wife then , after confessing her infidelity , left him , he would have been grieved and unhappy , but he would not have *felt* *himself* to be in such an unintelligible impasse as now .
But if you wish us to *address* *ourselves* to her Excellency , please be so good as to let us have her address ! '
He knew that the only way of escape from men was to hide his wounds from them . He had unconsciously tried to do so for two days , and now felt *himself* *unable* to continue the unequal struggle .
Having taken a medal on finishing , both at school and at the university , Karenin , by his uncle 's help , started at once on a conspicuous path in the Civil Service , and from that time *devoted* *himself* entirely to official ambition .
He could not think of that bill , made out on blue paper for a bonnet and ribbons , without *pitying* *himself* .
He was a believer , interested in religion chiefly from a political point of view , and this new teaching which *allowed* *itself* some novel interpretation , just because it paved the way for disputes and analyses , was repugnant to him on principle .
He saw nothing impossible or incongruous in the notion that death which exists for the unbeliever did not exist for him , and that as he possessed complete faith - of the measure of which *he* *himself* was the judge - there was no longer any sin in his soul , and he already experienced complete salvation here on earth .
But from the time she took Karenin under her special protection after his misfortune - from the time she *exerted* *herself* in his house , labouring for his welfare - she felt that all her other passions were unreal and that she now truly loved only Karenin .
She *caught* *herself* meditating on what might have been had she not married and had he been free .
I *address* *myself* to you , instead of to Alexis Alexandrovich , only because I do not wish to give pain to that high-minded man by reminding him of myself .
Then she had wished to *adorn* *herself* somehow , the more the better ; now , on the contrary , she was obliged to be adorned so unsuitably to her age and figure , that she was only concerned that the incongruity between these adornments and her own appearance should not be too dreadful .
Never having *occupied* *himself* with educational matters before , he devoted some time to studying the matter theoretically . After reading several books on anthropology , pedagogics , and didactics , he formed a plan of education , and having engaged the best Petersburg educationalist for supervision , he set to work .
' Well , now we can sit down quietly , ' said she with an agitated smile , as she *squeezed* *herself* in between the table and sofa , ' and have a chat over our tea . '
' But wherein am I to blame ? ' he *asked* *himself* , and as usual that question suggested another : Did those others - those Vronskys and Oblonskys and those fat-calved chamberlains - feel differently , love differently , marry differently ?
He drove these thoughts from him , and tried to *convince* *himself* that he was not living for the present temporal life but for eternal life , and that his soul was full of peace and love .
Why does he repulse me ? Why does he not love me ? ' he *asked* *himself* sadly , and could find no answer .
You see , if you take pains and learn in order to get a reward , the work will seem hard ; but when you work ' ( Karenin said this remembering how he had *sustained* *himself* that morning by a sense of duty in the dull task of signing a hundred and eighteen papers ) - ' if you love your work , you will find your reward in that . '
It was the same long-familiar tone in which his father always addressed him , and to which Serezha had already learnt to *adapt* *himself* .
He spent all the evening working , and dreaming how a windmill could be made on which one could ride , either by seizing one of the sails or by *tying* *oneself* to it and spinning round .
He did not think about his mother all the evening ; but when in bed he suddenly remembered her , and prayed in his own words that tomorrow , on his birthday , she should stop *hiding* *herself* and should come to him .
Despite all his experience of the world , Vronsky , in the new position in which he *found* *himself* , was making a terrible mistake .
Vronsky understood that it was vain to make any further attempts and that they would have to spend those few days in Petersburg as in a strange town , avoiding contact with their former world in order not to *lay* *themselves* open to unpleasantnesses and insults which were so painful to him .
She did not *ask* *herself* how she should contrive it .
It seemed to her natural and simple that she should see her son when she was in the same town with him . But on reaching Petersburg her present social position *presented* *itself* clearly to her , and she realized that it would be difficult to arrange the meeting .
To meet her son when he was out for a walk , after finding out when and where he went , was not enough : she had been *preparing* *herself* so for that meeting , had so much to say to him , and so much wanted to embrace and kiss him !
Never had she felt so humiliated as when , having called in the commissionaire , she heard from him the full account of how he had waited and had then been told that there would be no answer . Anna *felt* *herself* humiliated and wounded , but she saw that the Countess Lydia Ivanovna was right from her own point of view .
The Countess 's silence had made her feel humble , but the letter and what she read between its lines so irritated her , its malevolence seemed so revolting when compared with her passionate and legitimate love for her son , that she became indignant with others and ceased to *blame* *herself* .
Noticing the stranger 's confusion , Kapitonich *himself* *came* out , admitted her , and inquired what she wanted .
To the right of the door stood a bed on which sat the boy , his nightshirt unbuttoned , bending his little body backward , *stretching* *himself* and finishing his yawn .
He *raised* *himself* again on his elbow , moved his tousled head from side to side as if seeking for something , and opened his eyes .
Sleepily smiling with closed eyes , he moved his plump hands from the back of his bed to her shoulders , leaning against her and enveloping her in that sweet scent of sleepiness and warmth which only children possess , and began *rubbing* *himself* against her neck and shoulder .
' Mama ! Dearest , darling ! ' he shouted , again *throwing* *himself* upon her , and embracing her , as if he by now , having seen her smile , clearly realized what had happened .
' Oh , nurse dear , I did not know you were in the house , ' said Anna , *rousing* *herself* for a moment .
GREATLY AS ANNA HAD DESIRED TO SEE HER SON , and long as she had thought of and *prepared* *herself* for the interview , she had not at all expected that it would affect her so powerfully .
If I know it , then I know what I shall do , ' she *told* *herself* , powerless to imagine the position she would *find* *herself* in when she was convinced of his indifference .
And what is happening to her ? ' he *asked* *himself* .
The valet , conscious that he was not to blame , was about to *defend* *himself* , but , glancing at his master saw by his face that there was nothing for it but to keep silence ; so , stooping quickly , he knelt on the carpet and began sorting out the whole and broken glasses and bottles .
Serpukhovskoy had long ago ceased to *trouble* *himself* about Vronsky 's career , but was as fond of him as ever and was particularly amiable to him now .
Those who did not know her and her set , and heard none of the expressions of pity , indignation , or surprise uttered by the women because she had *allowed* *herself* to appear in public and to *show* *herself* so ostentatiously in her lace head-dress and in all her beauty , admired the composure and loveliness of the woman , and did not suspect that she felt as though pilloried .
He was disturbed both by vexation with Anna for *placing* *herself* and him in this false position , and by pity for her sufferings .
' I always buy dress materials for the *maids* *myself* , at the sales , ' the Princess said , continuing the conversation . ' Is it not time to take the scum off , my dear ? ' she added , turning to Agatha Mikhaylovna .
The exact reverse , ' she added , struck by her thought . ' Then Anna was so happy and Kitty *considered* *herself* miserable .
' No , but he is so used to living a purely spiritual life that he can not *reconcile* *himself* to realities , and , after all , Varenka is a reality ! '
She could not have expressed the sequence of thoughts that made her smile , but the last deduction was that her husband , in extolling his brother and *depreciating* *himself* , was not quite sincere .
How can you jump so ! ' he said , interrupting the conversation to rebuke her for making too quick a movement while stepping over a branch that lay across the path . ' But when I *examine* *myself* and *compare* *myself* with others , especially with my brother , I feel how bad I am . '
His sense of pleasure at her nearness went on increasing until it reached a point where , when placing in her basket an enormous wood mushroom with a thin stem and up-curling top , he looked into her eyes and , noting the flush of joyful and frightened agitation that suffused her face , he *himself* *became* embarrassed and gave her a smile that said too much .
' If it is so , I must think it over and come to a decision , and not *let* *myself* be carried away like a boy by the impulse of the moment , ' he *told* *himself* .
But it is nothing of the kind . The one thing I can find against it is that when I lost Marie I *told* *myself* that I would remain true to her memory .
But he came of a long-lived race , he had not a single grey hair , no one thought he was forty , and he remembered that Varenka had said it was only in Russia that men of fifty *considered* *themselves* old , and that in France a man of fifty *considered* *himself* dans la force de l 'ge , [ In the prime of life . ] while one of forty was un jeune homme .
Varenka 's heart beat so that she seemed to hear it , and she felt *herself* *growing* red and then pale and red again .
They did not know that pleasant as it was for her to stay with her daughter and necessary as she *felt* *herself* to be there , she suffered keenly , both on her own and on her husband 's account , since they gave their last and favourite daughter in marriage and the family nest was left empty .
Levin offered to replace her , but having once heard Levin giving the lesson and noticing that he was not doing it the same way as the master who had coached the boy in Moscow , she - though embarrassed and anxious not to offend Levin - told him resolutely that the text-book must be followed in the master 's way and that she would rather give the *lessons* *herself* .
Levin was vexed with Oblonsky for carelessly leaving it to the boy 's mother to look after his lessons which she did not understand , instead of doing *it* *himself* , and he was vexed with the masters also for teaching the children so badly ; but he promised his sister-in-law to give the lessons in the way she wished .
' Well , is there any game ? ' asked Oblonsky of Levin scarcely *giving* *himself* time to say a word of greeting to everybody . ' He and I have the cruellest intentions ...
' It 's very nice at their place , ' Vasenka was saying , talking of Vronsky and Anna . ' Of course I do not take it upon myself to judge , but in their house one *feels* *oneself* to be in a family . '
Already he *fancied* *himself* a deceived husband , necessary to his wife and her lover only to provide them with the comforts of life and with pleasures ...
Happily for Levin the old Princess put a stop to his sufferings by *herself* *getting* up and advising Kitty to go to bed .
He stood before her , his eyes glittering terribly under his frowning brows , and pressed his powerful arms to his breast , as if trying with all his might to *restrain* *himself* .
' Come , Kostya , you are exaggerating ! ' remonstrated Kitty , at the bottom of her heart pleased by the force of love for her which was now *expressing* *itself* in his jealousy .
How could I *torture* *myself* like that about such nonsense ? '
Levin jumped down from the cart where he had already *seated* *himself* , to meet the carpenter who was approaching with a sazhen measure in his hand .
' If only I do n't *disgrace* *myself* before that stranger ! If only Oblonsky 's shooting does not beat mine ! ' was his thought .
Levin *himself* *felt* inclined to stop at those little places , but , as they were near home , they were always within his reach and they were small , so that there was not room enough for three persons to shoot there .
But when heated with the work , and seeing Veslovsky pulling at the splashboard so strenuously and zealously that he actually wrenched it off , Levin *reproached* *himself* with being influenced by his sentiments of the previous day and with treating Veslovsky too coldly , and he tried to efface his unfriendliness by particular courtesy .
When they got to the real marsh , the object of their journey , Levin involuntarily wished to *rid* *himself* of Vasenka and go about unhindered .
They kept rising before the dogs and at the very feet of the sportsmen , and Levin might have *recovered* *himself* ; but the oftener he fired the more he *disgraced* *himself* before Veslovsky , who was puffing away merrily , in and out of range , never killing anything , but not in the least abashed thereby .
' No ! I must *pull* *myself* together , ' he thought , picked up his gun and hat , called Laska to heel , and got out of the marsh .
Despite the dirtiness of the hut , soiled by the sportsmen 's boots , the dirty dogs that were *licking* *themselves* there , and despite the smell of bog and of powder and the absence of knives and forks , the sportsmen drank tea and ate supper with a relish known only when one is out shooting .
Washed and clean they *betook* *themselves* to a half-barn that had been swept out and where the coachman had made up beds for the gentlemen .
Down , Krak ! ' exclaimed Oblonsky to the dog that was *scratching* *itself* and turning round in the hay .
' If only one could ... go without getting up ! ' said Oblonsky , *stretching* *himself* . ' It 's delightful to lie still . '
It seemed to him that he had expressed his thoughts and feelings as clearly as he could , yet both the others - sincere and not stupid men - had agreed that he was *comforting* *himself* with sophistry .
The words he had used when he said he was acting justly in a negative sense occupied his mind . ' Is it possible that one can act justly only in a negative sense ? ' he *asked* *himself* .
' Do n't I see how you have *placed* *yourself* with your wife ?
He heard his horses chewing hay ; then how the master and his eldest son got ready and rode away for the night to pasture their horses ; then how the soldier settled down to sleep on the other side of the barn with his nephew , their host 's little son ; he heard the boy in his treble voice imparting to his uncle his impressions of the dogs , which seemed to him terrible and enormous ; then how the boy asked what those dogs were going to catch , and he heard how the soldier replied in a hoarse and sleepy voice that the sportsmen would go next day to the marshes and fire guns , adding , to stop the questioning : ' Sleep , Vaska , sleep , or else look out ! ' Soon the *soldier* *himself* began to snore , and all was still except for the neighing of the horses and the cry of snipe .
Crows were flying to the fields , and a barefooted boy was already driving the horses toward an old man , who had got up from beneath his coat and sat *scratching* *himself* .
He must say something to the mistress of the house , ' Levin *told* *himself* .
Whether there was something unusual in Levin 's face , or whether Vasenka *himself* *felt* that ' le petit brin de cour ' which he had started was out of place in this family , he was embarrassed ( as far as is permissible to a man in Society ) by Levin 's entry .
Vasenka *drew* *himself* up .
He himself felt not only that he was in the highest degree ridiculous , but quite guilty and disgraced ; but recalling what he and his wife had suffered , and *asking* *himself* how he would act another time , he answered that he would do just the same again .
I myself , without having a moment 's peace , now pregnant , now nursing , always cross and grumbling , *tormenting* *myself* and others , repulsive to my husband - I shall live my life , and produce unfortunate , badly brought-up and beggared children .
So I ca n't even give the children a *start* *myself* , unless it 's with other people 's help and with humiliation .
I was still attractive then , still had my good looks , ' she went on , feeling that she wanted to *see* *herself* in a glass .
At Anna 's side , on a heated bay cavalry horse , stretching out his fat legs and evidently *admiring* *himself* , rode Vasenka Veslovsky , wearing the Scotch bonnet with waving ribbons , and Dolly could not repress a merry smile on recognizing him .
' Yes , quite big , ' answered Dolly shortly , and was *herself* *surprised* that she could talk so coldly about her children . ' We are very comfortable at the Levins ' , ' she added .
She was ashamed of the very patches and darns on which she at home *prided* *herself* .
A Russian nursemaid was feeding the child and evidently *herself* *eating* also .
On hearing Anna 's voice a smart tall Englishwoman with an unpleasant face and an impure look came into the room , rapidly shaking her fair curls , and at once began *excusing* *herself* , though Anna had not accused her of anything .
Glancing round at the grown-up people with her large radiant black eyes , like a little animal , evidently pleased that she was being admired , she smiled , and turning out her feet , energetically *supported* *herself* on her hands , drew her lower limbs forward , and then again advanced her hands .
Dolly was somewhat embarrassed and troubled by the quite novel circle she *found* *herself* in .
Shall we go ? ' he suggested , glancing at her face to *assure* *himself* that she really was not bored .
Everything interested Dolly and everything pleased her , especially *Vronsky* *himself* with his natural and naive enthusiasm . ' Yes , he is a very nice , good fellow , ' she thought again and again , not listening to him but looking at him , understanding his expression , and mentally *putting* *herself* in Anna 's place .
As soon as they had passed through the gate back into the garden , he glanced in the direction Anna had taken , and having *assured* *himself* that she could not hear or see them , he began .
' Well , to continue ! ' he said , *recovering* *himself* . ' The principal thing is that when working I want the assurance that the work will not die with me , that I shall have heirs ; and that I have not got .
' Well , this brings me to the point of my talk , ' he went on , *calming* *himself* with an effort . ' Anna can do it ; . it depends on her ...
But how is it *she* *herself* does not think of it ? ' asked Dolly , suddenly remembering that strange new habit Anna had of screwing up her eyes . And she remembered that it was just when the intimate side of life was in question that Anna screwed up her eyes .
We have *dirtied* *ourselves* on the buildings . '
The ladies rose ; Vronsky asked Sviyazhsky to take in Anna , and *himself* *went* up to Dolly .
Dolly observed all this luxury , which was new to her , and , as a housewife *herself* *controlling* a household , she could not help noting the details ( though she had no hope of putting what she observed to practical use in her own home , so far was such luxury above her way of life ) and *asking* *herself* how it was all done and by whom .
He , as well as the other men , had with the ladies ' permission taken off his coat , and his large handsome figure in white shirt-sleeves , his ruddy perspiring face and impetuous movements , *stamped* *themselves* on the memories of the onlookers .
She had come with the intention of staying two days if she could *adapt* *herself* to the life .
She wanted to reproduce the arguments with which she had so often *convinced* *herself* .
She rose , *drew* *herself* up , sighed deeply , and with her light steps began pacing up and down the room , pausing occasionally . ' I not consider it ?
But what would it mean ? ' said Anna , evidently expressing a thought she had considered a thousand times and knew by heart . ' It means that I , who hate him but yet *acknowledge* *myself* to blame toward him - and I do think him magnanimous - I must *humiliate* *myself* by writing to him ... !
She had pitied Anna from the bottom of her heart while they were talking ; but now she could not *make* *herself* think about her .
When they had driven into the fields Dolly experienced a pleasant feeling of relief , and she was about to ask the men how they had liked the Vronskys ' place , when suddenly Philip the *coachman* *himself* remarked :
As time went on , the oftener he felt *himself* *caught* in these meshes the more he desired , not exactly to escape from them but to try whether they really interfered with his freedom .
It was autumn , the dullest and most depressing time of year in the country , and so Vronsky , *bracing* *himself* for a struggle , announced his departure in a sterner and colder way than he had ever before used to Anna .
However , Levin had changed considerably since his marriage ; he had become patient , and if he did not understand why things were arranged thus , he *told* *himself* that , not knowing everything , he could not judge , and that probably things had to be so ; and he tried not to be indignant .
He was demanding the very thing Koznyshev was proposing ; but he evidently hated Koznyshev and his party , and this hatred *communicated* *itself* to all those on his side , and in turn evoked a similar , though more decently expressed , feeling of conflicting anger from the opposing party .
But the old party did not *consider* *itself* defeated .
Whether those tears resulted from a consciousness of injustice done him , or from love for the Nobility , or from the strained situation in which he *found* *himself* , surrounded by enemies , at any rate his emotion *communicated* *itself* . The majority of the nobles were touched and Levin felt a tenderness for Snetkov .
The elections themselves interested him so much that he began to think that if he were married by the next triennial election he would *himself* *put* up , just as , when a jockey had won him a prize , he had wished to ride a *race* *himself* .
Nevedovsky pretended not merely to be indifferent to but to despise this title ; but it was evident that he felt happy and exercised self-control to avoid betraying a delight ill-suited to the new Liberal circle in which they *found* *themselves* .
I wished to *come* *myself* , but changed my mind knowing that you would not like it .
Baby was ill , and she wished to *come* *herself* ?
True , there was one means , not of holding him - for that purpose she wished for nothing except his love - but of *putting* *herself* in such a position that he could not abandon her .
' And you ? ' he asked , *giving* *himself* a shake .
' It was such a strange letter . Annie was ill , yet you wished to *come* *yourself* ! '
Daily expecting Karenin 's reply , to be followed by a divorce , they now *established* *themselves* like a married couple .
The only thing Kitty could *reproach* *herself* with when that visit was over was that for an instant , on recognizing Vronsky 's once so familiar figure in his civilian clothes , she grew breathless , the blood rushed to her heart , and she felt a deep flush suffusing her face .
A stranger arrives , sits down , remains a while doing nothing , disturbs them , *upsets* *himself* , and goes away again . '
But afterwards , having *convinced* *himself* that they looked at the question so differently that they would never understand one another , he ceased making objections and merely listened .
He liked this phrase , but could not remember whether he had not used it before , and to *Pestsov* *himself* , and after saying it he grew embarrassed .
' Of course it 's all the same to me , but still it makes one ashamed , and it 's awfully stupid , ' thought Levin , *comforting* *himself* with the reflection that everybody does it ; and he went on to the meeting of the committee where he had to meet his sister-in-law in order to accompany her to his own home .
The military man , with merry , ever-laughing eyes , who *held* *himself* very erect , was Gagin , from Petersburg .
Only for the first few moments , while they were leaving the courtyard of the club , did Levin retain that sense of club calm , pleasure , and undoubted decorum in his surroundings ; but as soon as the carriage had passed out into the street and he felt it jolting on the uneven road , heard the angry shouts of an izvoshchik they met , saw in the ill-lit street the red signboards of a vodka dealer and of a small shop , that sense was dissipated , and he began to consider his actions and to *ask* *himself* whether he was doing right in going to see Anna .
She is writing a children 's book and does not speak of it to anyone , but she read it to me and I showed the manuscript to Vorkuyev ... You know , the publisher ... he *writes* *himself* , I think .
While Oblonsky passed behind a screen of trellis-work - and the man 's voice that had been speaking became silent - Levin looked at the portrait , which in the bright illumination seemed to step out of its frame , and he could not *tear* *himself* away from it .
Levin flushed , and to hide his confusion was about to ask her if it was long since she had seen Dolly , but at that instant Anna *herself* *began* to speak .
' What a woman ! ' thought Levin , and , quite *forgetting* *himself* , he gazed fixedly at her beautiful mobile face , which had now suddenly quite changed .
They are very nice children , but I could not *attach* *myself* to the work .
She asked Levin and Vorkuyev to pass on into the drawing-room , and *herself* *remained* behind to speak to her brother . ' About the divorce ?
' It 's surprising how all one 's time gets taken up here , ' he thought with reference to the second letter . He *felt* *himself* to blame because he had not yet done what his sister asked of him .
All the events had consisted of conversations : conversations to which he had listened or in which he had taken part . All these conversations were about matters he would never have *occupied* *himself* with had he been in the country , but here they were very interesting .
' Oh no ! ' she said , but he saw by her eyes the effort she made to *control* *herself* , and it boded him no good .
I *restrain* *myself* , wait , invent occupations for myself , - the English family , writing , reading , but all that is only deception , it is all a kind of morphia .
She might *pity* *herself* , but he must not pity her .
' Nothing , nothing ! ' she replied . ' I do n't *know* *myself* whether it is this lonely life , or nerves ...
THERE ARE NO CONDITIONS OF LIFE to which a man can not *accustom* *himself* , especially if he sees that every one around him lives in the same way .
Three months previously Levin would not have believed that he could quietly fall asleep under the circumstances in which he now *found* *himself* : that while leading an aimless , senseless life , one moreover that was above his means , after tippling ( he could call what had happened in the club by no other name ) , after showing unsuitable friendship to the man with whom his wife had once been in love , and after a still more unsuitable visit to a woman who could only be called a fallen woman , and after being allured by her and having grieved his wife - that in such circumstances he could quietly fall asleep .
It was necessary for him to go , but he could not *tear* *himself* away from the sight of her : He had loved that face and known all its expressions and looks , but he had never seen her as she was now .
He stopped at the door and heard Kitty give detailed instructions to the maid , and with her help *herself* *move* the bed .
To whom should he appeal , if not to Him in whose hands he *felt* *himself* , his soul , and his love , to be ?
This attention to his glasses and indifference to what was taking place at the Levins ' astonished Levin at first , but he immediately *recollected* *himself* and realized that no one knew or was bound to know his feelings , and that it was therefore all the more necessary to act calmly , deliberately , and firmly in order to break through this wall of indifference and to attain his aim . ' Do not hurry and do not omit anything , ' he said to himself , conscious of an increasing uplift of his physical powers and of his attention to all that lay before him .
Trying to be as exact as possible , Levin began recounting every unnecessary detail of his wife 's position , continually *interrupting* *himself* to beg the doctor to accompany him at once .
From the moment when he woke up and understood what was the matter Levin had *braced* *himself* to endure what might await him , without reasoning and without anticipating anything - firmly suppressing all his thoughts and feelings , determined not to upset his wife but on the contrary to calm and support her .
Not *allowing* *himself* even to think of what was about to happen and how it would end , judging by inquiries he had made as to the time such affairs usually lasted , Levin mentally *prepared* *himself* to endure and to keep his heart under restraint for something like five hours , which seemed to him within his power .
But after that hour another passed , a second , a third , and all the five hours that he had *set* *himself* as the longest term of possible endurance , and still the situation was unchanged ; and he went on enduring , for there was nothing else to do but to endure - thinking every moment that he had reached the utmost limit of endurance and that in a moment his heart would burst with pity .
And every time when the screams that came from the bedroom roused him from momentary forgetfulness he succumbed to the same strange error that had possessed him in the first moments : every time , on hearing the scream , he jumped up and ran to *justify* *himself* , but recollected on the way that he was not to blame and that he longed to protect and help her .
And suddenly , out of the mysterious , terrible , and unearthly world in which he had been living for the last twenty-two hours , Levin *felt* *himself* instantaneously transported back to the old everyday world , but now radiant with the light of such new joy that it was insupportable .
And amid the silence , as a positive answer to the mother 's question , a voice quite unlike all the restrained voices that had been speaking in the room *made* *itself* heard .
He could not at all *accustom* *himself* to the idea .
Levin listened to them and at the same time involuntarily thought of the past and of what had been going on before that morning , *remembering* *himself* as he had been yesterday before this event .
He talked but never ceased thinking of his wife , of the details of her present condition , and of his son - to the idea of whose existence he painstakingly tried to *accustom* *himself* .
Kitty turned her eyes and gazed fixedly in the same direction . ' Let me have him , let me have him ! ' she said , and was even going to *raise* *herself* .
I *address* *myself* to you not as ... ' He was going to say , ' as an offended husband , ' but , afraid of injuring his case thereby , he changed the expression to ' not as a statesman ' ( this sounded inappropriate ) ' but simply as a man , a kind man and a Christian !
' For heaven 's sake do n't *excite* *yourself* , ' said Oblonsky , touching his brother-in-law 's knee . ' The matter is not closed .
She appreciated it to such a degree that , at the moment , *feeling* *herself* to blame toward you , she did not consider and could not consider everything .
He knew that his father and mother had had a quarrel which separated them ; knew that it was his fate to remain with his father , and he tried to *accustom* *himself* to that thought .
The others all *harness* *themselves* to it - they may do it with their hands or their belts - and then off they go through all the rooms .
' I expect you *hurt* *yourself* when you fell down ? ' said the tutor . ' I told you it was a dangerous game .
' If I had *hurt* *myself* no one would have known it , that is quite certain ! '
Besides business - his sister 's divorce and his post - it was as usual necessary for him , as he said , to *refresh* *himself* in Petersburg after the mustiness of Moscow .
In Moscow he sometimes noticed some grey hairs ; fell asleep after dinner ; *stretched* *himself* ; walked slowly upstairs , breathing heavily ; felt dull among young women , and did not dance at balls .
In Moscow he *let* *himself* go to such an extent that , had he continued to live there long , he might even have come to the soul-saving stage ; but in Petersburg he again felt quite a smart fellow .
Lydia Ivanovna rapidly read the note and , *excusing* *herself* , with extreme rapidity wrote and despatched the answer and returned to the table . ' I have noticed , ' she continued her interrupted sentence , ' that Muscovites , men especially , are most indifferent to religion . '
He smoothed his whiskers to hide the yawn , and *gave* *himself* a shake .
But then he felt *himself* *falling* asleep , and nearly snored .
He *roused* *himself* , just when the Countess Lydia Ivanovna uttered the words : ' He is asleep . '
He went up to the Frenchman and placed his hand in his . Oblonsky also rose and , opening his eyes wide to *wake* *himself* up in case he was asleep , looked first at one and then at the other .
It was an inner irritation , caused on her side by a diminution of his love for her , and on his by regret that for her sake he had *placed* *himself* in a distressing situation , which she , instead of trying to alleviate , made still harder .
To-day he had been away from home all day , and she had felt so lonely , and it was so painful to *feel* *herself* at discord with him , that she wished to forget it all , to forgive and make it up with him . Wishing even to *blame* *herself* and to justify him , she said to herself :
It was no longer the Queen of Sweden 's instructress but the Princess Sorokina who lived in the country near Moscow with the Countess Vronskaya who *presented* *herself* to Anna 's imagination .
For a moment she *recollected* *herself* and was horrified at having broken her resolution .
Yet though she knew she was ruining her cause , she could not *restrain* *herself* , could not forbear pointing out to him how wrong he was , and could not submit to him .
And standing before her he slowly brought out : ' Why are you testing my patience ? ' He looked as if he could have said much more , but *restrained* *himself* .
' But how ? ' she *asked* *herself* , and sat down in the arm-chair before the looking-glass .
Thoughts of where she would now go : to the aunt who had brought her up , to Dolly , or simply abroad by herself ; of what he was now doing , alone in the study ; of whether this quarrel was final or whether a reconciliation was still possible ; of what all her former Petersburg acquaintances would say of her now ; how Karenin would regard it ; and many other thoughts about what would happen now after the rupture , passed through her mind , but she did not *give* *herself* up entirely to these thoughts .
' You *know* *yourself* ? ' said she , and at the same moment , unable to *restrain* *herself* any longer , she burst into tears .
' Anna , why *torture* *yourself* and me like this ? ' he said , kissing her hands .
' Oh no , I shall not be *ready* *myself* , ' she said , and immediately thought : ' So it was possible to arrange things as I wished ! ' - ' No , do as you wished to . Go to the dining-room , I will come directly .
' I never *asked* *myself* , Anna Arkadyevna , whether I am sorry or not .
In the morning a terrible nightmare , which had come to her several times even before her union with Vronsky , *repeated* *itself* and woke her . An old man with a tangled beard was leaning over some iron and doing something , while muttering senseless words in French ; and as always in that nightmare ( this was what made it terrible ) she felt this peasant was paying no attention to her but was doing something dreadful to her with the iron .
She could not now understand how she could have *humiliated* *herself* so as to remain a whole day with him in his house .
Alarmed by the despairing look with which she had said these words , he jumped up , intending to run after her , but , *recollecting* *himself* , he sat down again , tightly clenching his teeth and frowning .
Oh ! And did I brush my hair or not ? ' she *asked* *herself* ; but could not remember .
' But what shall I *do* *myself* ? ' she thought . ' Yes I will go to Dolly 's , of course , or else I shall go out of my mind !
' Yes , I will go , ' said Anna , recovering and *rousing* *herself* ; ' and if a telegram comes during my absence , send it to Darya Alexandrovna 's ...
She *reproached* *herself* now with the humiliation to which she had descended . ' I entreated him to forgive me .
He may have missed the train and be back already . Wanting to *humiliate* *yourself* again ! ' she said to herself .
And of me he thinks with hate and regrets having *joined* *himself* to me ! '
She attributed that animosity to the awkward position Anna , who had formerly patronized her , now *felt* *herself* to be in , and she was sorry for her .
ANNA *RESEATED* *HERSELF* IN THE CALCHE in a state of mind even worse than when she left home .
I do n't even *know* *myself* ! "
They are ringing for vespers , and how carefully that tradesman is *crossing* *himself* , as if he were afraid of dropping something !
' I shall have time . ' She gave the order to harness another pair of horses , and *busied* *herself* packing her handbag with things necessary for a few days .
He is weary of me and is trying not to act dishonourably toward me . Yesterday he *betrayed* *himself* - he wants the divorce and a marriage in order to burn his boats .
For me everything centres in him , and I demand that he should *give* *himself* up to me more and more completely .
No ! ' she now *answered* *herself* without the least hesitation . ' It is impossible !
Are we not all flung into the world only to hate each other , and therefore to *torment* *ourselves* and others ?
She mounted the high step of the railway carriage and *seated* *herself* in an empty compartment on the dirty - though once white - cover of the spring seat .
At last the third bell rang , the engine whistled and creaked , the coupling chains gave a jerk , and the husband *crossed* *himself* . ' It would be interesting to ask him what he means by it , ' thought Anna , regarding him spitefully .
At the point that I can not imagine a situation in which life would not be a torment ; that we all have been created in order to suffer , and that we all know this and all try to invent means of *deceiving* *ourselves* .
And glancing at the red-cheeked husband and his thin wife , she saw that the sickly wife *considered* *herself* misunderstood , and that the husband deceived her and encouraged her in her opinion of herself .
A feeling seized her like that she had experienced when preparing to enter the water in bathing , and she *crossed* *herself* .
The familiar gesture of making the sign of the cross called up a whole series of girlish and childish memories , and suddenly the darkness , that obscured everything from her , broke , and life *showed* *itself* to her for an instant with all its bright past joys .
But she did not take her eyes off the wheels of the approaching second truck , and at the very moment when the midway point between the wheels drew level , she threw away her red bag , and drawing her head down between her shoulders *threw* *herself* forward on her hands under the truck , and with a light movement as if preparing to rise again immediately dropped on her knees .
She wished to rise , to *throw* *herself* back , but something huge and relentless struck her on the head and dragged her down . ' God forgive me everything ! ' she said , feeling the impossibility of struggling ...
' Did not I offend him in some way ? ' he *asked* *himself* .
Discussions in drawing-rooms , at meetings , at assemblies , in committees , and everywhere where one could speak , took up part of his time ; but , as an habitual town-dweller , he did not *allow* *himself* to be entirely absorbed by discussions , as his inexperienced brother did when he was in Moscow ; so he had much superfluous leisure and mental energy .
Fortunately for him , at this most trying time , after the failure of his book , in place of the questions of Dissent , our American friends , the Samara Famine , the Exhibitions , and Spiritualism , the Slavonic question - which had previously only smouldered in Society - came to the front , and Koznyshev , who had previously been one of the promoters of that cause , *devoted* *himself* to it entirely .
He *devoted* *himself* completely to the service of that great movement and forgot to think about his book .
You know , les petites misres de la vie humaine , ' [ The little miseries of human life . ] he said to the Princess , as if to *excuse* *himself* . ' And the Princess Myagkaya , not Lisa but Bibish , is really sending a thousand rifles and twelve nurses !
Not only is he *going* *himself* , but he is taking a whole squadron at his own expense . '
He knew what a military man ought to be , and by the appearance and talk of those men , and by the swagger with which they *applied* *themselves* to their flasks on the way , he considered them bad soldiers .
We took away everything that he could *kill* *himself* with . We lived on the ground floor , but one could not tell what he might do .
You know he had once before *shot* *himself* on her account ? ' she said , and the old woman 's brows knit at the recollection . ' Yes , she ended as such a woman deserved to end .
In the evening I had only just gone to my room when my Mary told me that at the station a lady had *thrown* *herself* under a train .
Well , she proved it ! She *ruined* *herself* and two splendid men - her husband and my unfortunate son . '
But my poor son had *given* *himself* up to her entirely .
No , say what you will , her *death* *itself* was the death of a horrid woman , without religion .
Having twice walked past the sacks and *mastered* *himself* , he turned calmly to Koznyshev :
I was so busy that I did not know when I could *tear* *myself* away .
' Yes , yes ! Hush ! ... ' was all Kitty answered as she sat softly *rocking* *herself* and tenderly pressing the little plump arm , which looked as if a thread had been tied round the wrist , and was still feebly waving while Mitya kept shutting and opening his eyes .
He *says* *himself* that he would like to believe .
What astounded and upset him most in this connection , was that the majority of those in his set and of his age , having like *himself* *replaced* their former beliefs by new convictions like his own ; did not see anything to be distressed about , and were quite contented and tranquil . So that , besides the principal question , Levin was tormented by other questions : Were these people sincere ?
Latterly in Moscow and in the country , having *convinced* *himself* that he could get no answer from the materialists , he read through and re-read Plato , Spinoza , Kant , Schelling , Hegel , and Schopenhauer , those philosophers who explained life otherwise than materialistically .
Their thoughts seemed to him fruitful when he read , or was himself devising refutations of other teachings , the materialistic in particular ; but as soon as he began reading , or *himself* *devised* , solutions to life 's problems , the same thing occurred every time .
' In an infinity of time , and in infinity of matter , in infinite space , a bubble , a bubble organism , *separates* *itself* , and that bubble *maintains* *itself* awhile and then bursts , and that bubble is - I ! '
It was the latest belief . It was the ruling conviction and from among all other explanations Levin , without *himself* *knowing* when or how , had involuntarily chosen it as being at any rate the clearest of all .
And though he was a happy and healthy family man , Levin was several times so near to suicide that he hid a cord he had lest he should *hang* *himself* , and he feared to carry a gun lest he should *shoot* *himself* .
But he did not hang or *shoot* *himself* and went on living .
WHEN LEVIN THOUGHT about what he was and why he lived , he could find no answer and was driven to despair ; but when he left off *asking* *himself* those questions he seemed to know what he was and why he lived , for he acted and lived unfalteringly and definitely - recently even more unfalteringly than before .
Formerly ( it had been so almost from childhood and increasingly so till his complete maturity ) when he tried to do anything for the good of everybody , for humanity , for Russia , for the whole village , he had noticed that the thoughts of it were agreeable , but the *activity* *itself* was always unsatisfactory ; there was no full assurance that the work was really necessary , and the activity itself , which at first seemed so great , ever lessened and lessened till it vanished .
But now since his marriage , when he began to *confine* *himself* more and more to living for himself , though he no longer felt any joy at the thought of his activity , he felt confident that his work was necessary , saw that it progressed far better than formerly , and that it was always growing more and more .
Having lived most of his life in the country and in close contact with the peasants , Levin always felt , at this busy time , that this general stimulation of the peasants *communicated* *itself* to him .
Levin went up to the roller , motioned Theodore aside and *himself* *began* feeding the machine .
' What have I discovered ? ' he *asked* *himself* , turning back the leaf that it should not hinder the insect and bending another blade for the creature to pass on to .
I have *freed* *myself* from deception and learnt to know my Master .
Having then for the first time clearly understood that before every man , and before himself , there lay only suffering , death , and eternal oblivion , he had concluded that to live under such conditions was impossible ; that one must either explain life to oneself so that it does not seem to be an evil mockery by some sort of devil , or one must *shoot* *oneself* .
' But can I believe in all that the Church professes ? ' he *asked* *himself* , *testing* *himself* by everything which might destroy his present peace of mind .
They bring their-mites , or *go* *themselves* , and say straight out why they do it .
Twenty years ago we should have been silent , but now we hear the voice of the Russian people , who are ready to arise as one man and to *sacrifice* *themselves* for their oppressed brethren .
' But it 's not a question of *sacrificing* *themselves* only , but of killing Turks , ' remarked Levin timidly . ' The people sacrifice and are ready to sacrifice for the good of their souls , but not for murder , ' he added , involuntarily connecting the conversation with the thoughts that so engrossed him .
He saw that it was not possible to convince his brother and Katavasov , and still less did he see any possibility of *himself* *agreeing* with them .
He could not agree with this , because he neither saw the expression of those thoughts in the people among whom he lived , nor did he find any such thoughts in himself ( and he could not *consider* *himself* as other than one of those who constituted the Russian people ) . Above all , he could not agree because he , together with the people , did not know and could not know wherein lay the general welfare , but knew definitely that the attainment of this welfare was only possible by a strict fulfilment of the law of goodness which is revealed to every man , and therefore could not desire or preach war for any kind of general aims .
We had hardly ... ' Kitty began *excusing* *herself* .
Now it was not as it used to be with him when he. had invented ways of *tranquillizing* *himself* and had been obliged to recapitulate the whole train of reflections in order to arrive at the feeling .
' Well , what is perplexing me ? ' Levin *asked* *himself* , feeling in advance that the solution of his doubts , though as yet unknown to him , was already in his soul .
' Is it possible that those hundreds of millions of people are deprived of that highest blessing , without which life has no meaning ? ' he pondered , but he immediately *corrected* *himself* . ' But what am I asking about ? ' he said to himself .
' Do I not know that it is not the stars that are moving ? ' he *asked* *himself* , looking at a bright planet that had already shifted its position by the top branch of a birch tree . ' But I , watching the movement of the stars , can not picture to myself the rotation of the earth and I am right in saying that the stars move .
In an instant both boys were rolling and tumbling in the dirt , gripped together like cats ; and for the space of a minute they tugged and tore at each other 's hair and clothes , punched and scratched each other 's nose , and *covered* *themselves* with dust and glory .
The boy only struggled to *free* *himself* .
As he drew near , he slackened speed , took the middle of the street , leaned far over to starboard and rounded to ponderously and with laborious pomp and circumstance -- for he was personating the Big Missouri , and *considered* *himself* to be drawing nine feet of water .
He was boat and captain and engine-bells combined , so he had to *imagine* *himself* standing on his own hurricane-deck giving the orders and executing them :
TOM *presented* *himself* before Aunt Polly , who was sitting by an open window in a pleasant rearward apartment , which was bedroom , breakfast-room , dining-room , and library , combined .
She had thought that of course Tom had deserted long ago , and she wondered at seeing him *place* *himself* in her power again in this intrepid way .
He returned , now , and hung about the fence till nightfall , `` showing off , '' as before ; but the girl never *exhibited* *herself* again , though Tom *comforted* *himself* a little with the hope that she had been near some window , meantime , and been aware of his attentions .
He was so brimful of exultation that he could hardly *hold* *himself* when the old lady came back and stood above the wreck discharging lightnings of wrath from over her spectacles .
He *pictured* *himself* lying sick unto death and his aunt bending over him beseeching one little forgiving word , but he would turn his face to the wall , and die with that word unsaid .
And he *pictured* *himself* brought home from the river , dead , with his curls all wet , and his sore heart at rest .
How she would *throw* *herself* upon him , and how her tears would fall like rain , and her lips pray God to give her back her boy and she would never , never abuse him any more !
A log raft in the river invited him , and he *seated* *himself* on its outer edge and contemplated the dreary vastness of the stream , wishing , the while , that he could only be drowned , all at once and unconsciously , without undergoing the uncomfortable routine devised by nature .
He climbed the fence , threaded his stealthy way through the plants , till he stood under that window ; he looked up at it long , and with emotion ; then he laid him down on the ground under it , *disposing* *himself* upon his back , with his hands clasped upon his breast and holding his poor wilted flower .
The girl `` put him to rights '' after he had *dressed* *himself* ; she buttoned his neat roundabout up to his chin , turned his vast shirt collar down over his shoulders , brushed him off and crowned him with his speckled straw hat .
He once recited three thousand verses without stopping ; but the strain upon his mental faculties was too great , and he was little better than an idiot from that day forth -- a grievous misfortune for the school , for on great occasions , before company , the superintendent ( as Tom expressed it ) had always made this boy come out and `` *spread* *himself* . ''
And above it all the great man sat and beamed a majestic judicial smile upon all the house , and *warmed* *himself* in the sun of his own grandeur -- for he was `` showing off , '' too .
These *despised* *themselves* , as being the dupes of a wily fraud , a guileful snake in the grass .
The Sunday-school children *distributed* *themselves* about the house and occupied pews with their parents , so as to be under supervision .
After the hymn had been sung , the Rev. Mr. Sprague *turned* *himself* into a bulletin-board , and read off `` notices '' of meetings and societies and things till it seemed that the list would stretch out to the crack of doom -- a queer custom which is still kept up in America , even in cities , away here in this age of abundant newspapers . Often , the less there is to justify a traditional custom , the harder it is to get rid of it .
But he grew tired once more , after a while ; tried to *amuse* *himself* with a fly but found no relief ; followed an ant around , with his nose close to the floor , and quickly wearied of that ; yawned , sighed , forgot the beetle entirely , and sat down on it .
He took a rest and then *swelled* *himself* up and fetched a succession of admirable groans .
Sid yawned , stretched , then *brought* *himself* up on his elbow with a snort , and began to stare at Tom .
He gathered quite a following of lads interested in the exhibition ; and one that had cut his finger and had been a centre of fascination and homage up to this time , now *found* *himself* suddenly without an adherent , and shorn of his glory .
He hung his hat on a peg and *flung* *himself* into his seat with business-like alacrity .
He sat down upon the end of the pine bench and the girl *hitched* *herself* away from him with a toss of her head .
For a time the girl refused to notice ; but her human curiosity presently began to *manifest* *itself* by hardly perceptible signs .
Then the girl 's interest began to *fasten* *itself* upon the work and she forgot everything else .
It was a hard struggle with him to make new advances , now , but he *nerved* *himself* to it and entered .
So she sat down to cry again and *upbraid* *herself* ; and by this time the scholars began to gather again , and she had to hide her griefs and still her broken heart and take up the cross of a long , dreary , aching afternoon , with none among the strangers about her to exchange sorrows with .
For frivolity and jokes and spotted tights were an offense , when they *intruded* *themselves* upon a spirit that was exalted into the vague august realm of the romantic .
If you buried a marble with certain necessary incantations , and left it alone a fortnight , and then opened the place with the incantation he had just used , you would find that all the marbles you had ever lost had *gathered* *themselves* together there , meantime , no matter how widely they had been separated .
He thought he would *satisfy* *himself* on that point ; so he searched around till he found a small sandy spot with a little funnel-shaped depression in it .
He *laid* *himself* down and put his mouth close to this depression and called --
Now he went back to his treasure-house and carefully *placed* *himself* just as he had been standing when he tossed the marble away ; then he took another marble from his pocket and tossed it in the same way , saying : `` Brother , go find your brother ! ''
" I sha 'n't ! Why do n't you *fall* *yourself* ?
The boys *dressed* *themselves* , hid their accoutrements , and went off grieving that there were no outlaws any more , and wondering what modern civilization could claim to have done to compensate for their loss .
By and by , out of the stillness , little , scarcely perceptible noises began to *emphasize* *themselves* .
The ticking of the clock began to *bring* *itself* into notice .
They found the sharp new heap they were seeking , and *ensconced* *themselves* within the protection of three great elms that grew in a bunch within a few feet of the grave .
Did n't Gracie Miller fall in the kitchen fire and *burn* *herself* terrible the very next Saturday ? "
He undressed with excessive caution , and fell asleep *congratulating* *himself* that nobody knew of his escapade .
His aunt wept over him and asked him how he could go and break her old heart so ; and finally told him to go on , and *ruin* *himself* and bring her gray hairs with sorrow to the grave , for it was no use for her to try any more .
Then he *betook* *himself* to his seat , rested his elbows on his desk and his jaws in his hands , and stared at the wall with the stony stare of suffering that has reached the limit and can no further go .
And it was said that a belated citizen had come upon Potter *washing* *himself* in the `` branch '' about one or two o 'clock in the morning , and that Potter had at once sneaked off -- suspicious circumstances , especially the washing which was not a habit with Potter .
At this moment the crowd began to sway and struggle , and voices shouted , `` It 's him ! it 's him ! he 's *coming* *himself* ! ''
And when he had finished and still stood alive and whole , their wavering impulse to break their oath and save the poor betrayed prisoner 's life faded and vanished away , for plainly this miscreant had *sold* *himself* to Satan and it would be fatal to meddle with the property of such a power as that .
Injun Joe repeated his statement , just as calmly , a few minutes afterward on the inquest , under oath ; and the boys , seeing that the lightnings were still withheld , were confirmed in their belief that Joe had *sold* *himself* to the devil .
ONE of the reasons why Tom 's mind had drifted away from its secret troubles was , that it had found a new and weighty matter to *interest* *itself* about .
He began to *find* *himself* hanging around her father 's house , nights , and feeling very miserable .
He asked for it so often that he became a nuisance , and his aunt ended by telling him to *help* *himself* and quit bothering her .
He *gathered* *himself* up and sneaked off , crushed and crestfallen .
Then Tom tumbled his ham over the bluff and *let* *himself* down after it , tearing both skin and clothes to some extent in the effort .
The Terror of the Seas had brought a side of bacon , and had about *worn* *himself* out with getting it there .
They saw a fire smouldering upon a great raft a hundred yards above , and they went stealthily thither and *helped* *themselves* to a chunk .
When the last crisp slice of bacon was gone , and the last allowance of corn pone devoured , the boys *stretched* *themselves* out on the grass , filled with contentment .
They could have found a cooler place , but they would not *deny* *themselves* such a romantic feature as the roasting campfire .
Gradually the cool dim gray of the morning whitened , and as gradually sounds multiplied and life *manifested* *itself* .
They were too hungry to stop to fish , but they fared sumptuously upon cold ham , and then *threw* *themselves* down in the shade to talk .
However , he reached the shore finally , and drifted along till he found a low place and *drew* *himself* out .
He *laid* *himself* down under the thwarts and waited , panting .
He flew along unfrequented alleys , and shortly *found* *himself* at his aunt 's back fence .
Then with a mutual impulse the two bereaved women *flung* *themselves* into each other 's arms and had a good , consoling cry , and then parted .
When he had pulled a mile above the village , he started quartering across and *bent* *himself* stoutly to his work .
He sat down and took a long rest , *torturing* *himself* meanwhile to keep awake , and then started warily down the home-stretch .
It was broad daylight before he *found* *himself* fairly abreast the island bar .
Then Tom *hid* *himself* away in a shady nook to sleep till noon , and the other pirates got ready to fish and explore .
When they were well exhausted , they would run out and sprawl on the dry , hot sand , and lie there and *cover* *themselves* up with it , and by and by break for the water again and go through the original performance once more .
Tom *found* *himself* writing `` BECKY '' in the sand with his big toe ; he scratched it out , and was angry with himself for his weakness .
He erased it once more and then *took* *himself* out of temptation by driving the other boys together and joining them .
And he moved moodily away and began to *dress* *himself* .
Now they *stretched* *themselves* out on their elbows and began to puff , charily , and with slender confidence .
The boys *huddled* *themselves* together and sought the friendly companionship of the fire , though the dull dead heat of the breathless atmosphere was stifling .
A deep peal of thunder went rolling and tumbling down the heavens and *lost* *itself* in sullen rumblings in the distance .
They were eloquent in their distress ; but they presently discovered that the fire had eaten so far up under the great log it had been built against ( where it curved upward and *separated* *itself* from the ground ) , that a handbreadth or so of it had escaped wetting ; so they patiently wrought until , with shreds and bark gathered from the under sides of sheltered logs , they coaxed the fire to burn again .
In the afternoon Becky Thatcher found *herself* *moping* about the deserted schoolhouse yard , and feeling very melancholy .
As the service proceeded , the clergyman drew such pictures of the graces , the winning ways , and the rare promise of the lost lads that every soul there , thinking he recognized these pictures , felt a pang in remembering that he had persistently *blinded* *himself* to them always before , and had as persistently seen only faults and flaws in the poor boys .
The congregation became more and more moved , as the pathetic tale went on , till at last the whole company broke down and joined the weeping mourners in a chorus of anguished sobs , the *preacher* *himself* giving way to his feelings , and crying in the pulpit .
Aunt Polly , Mary , and the Harpers *threw* *themselves* upon their restored ones , smothered them with kisses and poured out thanksgivings , while poor Huck stood abashed and uncomfortable , not knowing exactly what to do or where to hide from so many unwelcoming eyes .
I 'm thankful to the good God and Father of us all I 've got you back , that 's long-suffering and merciful to them that believe on Him and keep His word , though goodness knows I 'm unworthy of it , but if only the worthy ones got His blessings and had His hand to help them over the rough places , there 's few enough would smile here or ever enter into His rest when the long night comes . Go ' long Sid , Mary , Tom -- *take* *yourselves* off -- you 've hendered me long enough . "
Becky 's lips trembled and the tears came to her eyes ; she hid these signs with a forced gayety and went on chattering , but the life had gone out of the picnic , now , and out of everything else ; she got away as soon as she could and *hid* *herself* and had what her sex call `` a good cry . ''
He began to *hate* *himself* for throwing away the chance Becky had offered for a reconciliation .
He *called* *himself* a fool , and all the hard names he could think of .
Becky , glancing in at a window behind him at the moment , saw the act , and moved on , without *discovering* *herself* .
Once more she ventured , and this time she *fortified* *herself* with the thought : `` It 's a good lie -- it 's a good lie -- I wo n't let it grieve me . ''
The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face : " I 'll thank you to *keep* *yourself* _ to _ yourself , Mr. Thomas Sawyer .
Every day he took a mysterious book out of his desk and *absorbed* *himself* in it at times when no classes were reciting .
She glanced around ; *found* *herself* alone , and the next instant she had the book in her hands .
She did not expect that Tom could get out of his trouble by denying that he spilt the ink on the *book* *himself* ; and she was right .
When the worst came to the worst , she had an impulse to get up and tell on Alfred Temple , but she made an effort and *forced* *herself* to keep still -- because , said she to herself , " he 'll tell about me tearing the picture sure .
By and by , Mr. Dobbins *straightened* *himself* up , yawned , then unlocked his desk , and reached for his book , but seemed undecided whether to take it out or leave it .
Mr. Dobbins fingered his book absently for a while , then took it out and *settled* *himself* in his chair to read !
The master 's wife would go on a visit to the country in a few days , and there would be nothing to interfere with the plan ; the master always *prepared* *himself* for great occasions by getting pretty well fuddled , and the signpainter 's boy said that when the dominie had reached the proper condition on Examination Evening he would `` manage the thing '' while he napped in his chair ; then he would have him awakened at the right time and hurried away to school .
A very little boy stood up and sheepishly recited , `` You 'd scarce expect one of my age to speak in public on the stage , '' etc . -- *accompanying* *himself* with the painfully exact and spasmodic gestures which a machine might have used -- supposing the machine to be a trifle out of order .
In fancy , the voluptuous votary of fashion *sees* *herself* amid the festive throng , ' the observed of all observers . '
He knew what the matter was , and *set* *himself* to right it .
Tom soon found *himself* *tormented* with a desire to drink and swear ; the desire grew to be so intense that nothing but the hope of a chance to *display* *himself* in his red sash kept him from withdrawing from the order .
By and by the tempest *spent* *itself* and died without accomplishing its object .
Moreover , he wanted to *assure* *himself* that Huck had remained discreet .
As the twilight drew on , they *found* *themselves* hanging about the neighborhood of the little isolated jail , perhaps with an undefined hope that something would happen that might clear away their difficulties .
The next day and the day after , he hung about the courtroom , drawn by an almost irresistible impulse to go in , but *forcing* *himself* to stay out .
The perplexity and dissatisfaction of the house *expressed* *itself* in murmurs and provoked a reproof from the bench .
Many men were moved , and many women 's compassion *testified* *itself* in tears .
Every eye *fastened* *itself* with wondering interest upon Tom as he rose and took his place upon the stand .
Tom began -- hesitatingly at first , but as he warmed to his subject his words flowed more and more easily ; in a little while every sound ceased but his own voice ; every eye *fixed* *itself* upon him ; with parted lips and bated breath the audience hung upon his words , taking no note of time , rapt in the ghastly fascinations of the tale .
They arrived hot and panting , and *threw* *themselves* down in the shade of a neighboring elm to rest and have a smoke .
The boys *stretched* *themselves* upon the floor with their eyes to knotholes in the planking , and lay waiting , in a misery of fear . " They 've stopped
He *gathered* *himself* up cursing , and his comrade said : " Now what 's the use of all that ?
They were too much absorbed in *hating* *themselves* -- hating the ill luck that made them take the spade and the pick there .
But the incidents of his adventure grew sensibly sharper and clearer under the attrition of thinking them over , and so he presently *found* *himself* leaning to the impression that the thing might not have been a dream , after all .
The tavern-keeper 's young son said it was kept locked all the time , and he never saw anybody go into it or come out of it except at night ; he did not know any particular reason for this state of things ; had had some little curiosity , but it was rather feeble ; had made the most of the mystery by *entertaining* *himself* with the idea that that room was `` ha 'nted '' ; had noticed that there was a light in there the night before .
In his uneasiness Huck found *himself* *drawing* closer and closer to the alley ; fearing all sorts of dreadful things , and momentarily expecting some catastrophe to happen that would take away his breath .
There was not much to take away , for he seemed only able to inhale it by thimblefuls , and his heart would soon *wear* *itself* out , the way it was beating .
And mind and *behave* *yourself* and do n't be any trouble . "
The sure fun of the evening outweighed the uncertain treasure ; and , boy-like , he determined to yield to the stronger inclination and not *allow* *himself* to think of the box of money another time that day .
Ten o 'clock came , and the noise of vehicles ceased , scattered lights began to wink out , all straggling foot-passengers disappeared , the village *betook* *itself* to its slumbers and left the small watcher alone with the silence and the ghosts .
Now he turned in his tracks , between the walls of sumach bushes -- *turned* *himself* as carefully as if he were a ship -- and then stepped quickly but cautiously along .
Huck was given a seat and the old man and his brace of tall sons speedily *dressed* *themselves* .
" Now , my boy , I hope you 're good and hungry , because breakfast will be ready as soon as the sun 's up , and we 'll have a piping hot one , too -- *make* *yourself* easy about that !
Huck was in a close place -- the inquiring eye was upon him -- he would have given anything for material for a plausible answer -- nothing *suggested* *itself* -- the inquiring eye was boring deeper and deeper -- a senseless reply offered -- there was no time to weigh it , so at a venture he uttered it -- feebly :
Under the roof vast knots of bats had *packed* *themselves* together , thousands in a bunch ; the lights disturbed the creatures and they came flocking down by hundreds , squeaking and darting furiously at the candles .
He fell to blaming and *abusing* *himself* for getting her into this miserable situation ; this had a better effect .
He was vastly gratified the next moment , to see the `` Spaniard '' take to his heels and *get* *himself* out of sight .
Tin pans and horns were added to the din , the population *massed* *itself* and moved toward the river , met the children coming in an open carriage drawn by shouting citizens , thronged around it , joined its homeward march , and swept magnificently up the main street roaring huzzah after huzzah !
When the cave door was unlocked , a sorrowful sight *presented* *itself* in the dim twilight of the place .
The great foundation-beam of the door had been chipped and hacked through , with tedious labor ; useless labor , too , it was , for the native rock formed a sill outside it , and upon that stubborn material the knife had wrought no effect ; the only damage done was to the *knife* *itself* .
This question was not entirely answered in Huck 's slow mind before he found *himself* *pushed* , along with Tom , into Mrs. Douglas ' drawing-room .
She took them to a bedchamber and said : " Now wash and *dress* *yourselves* .
At the proper time Mr. Jones made his little speech , in which he thanked the widow for the honor she was *doing* *himself* and his sons , but said that there was another person whose modesty -- And so forth and so on .
